# DNS and MagicDNS

**Source:** https://tailscale.com/kb/1082/dns

---

What firewall ports should I open to use Tailscale?Most of the time, you don't need to open any firewall ports for Tailscale. Tailscale uses
various NAT traversal techniques to safely connect to other Tailscale nodes
without manual intervention—it "just works."
However, when both devices are on difficult networks Tailscale may not be able to
connect devices peer-to-peer. You'll still be able to send and receive traffic,
thanks to our secure relays (DERP),
but the relayed connection won't be as fast as a peer-to-peer one.
In these cases, you may consider opening a firewall port to help Tailscale
connect peer-to-peer:
Let your internal devices start TCP connections to \*:443.
Connections to the control server and other backend systems and data connections to the DERP relays use HTTPS on port 443.
The set of DERP relays, in particular, grows over time. We recommend \*:443 because attempting to enumerate the set of
allowed destinations is almost certain to break your connectivity in the future in ways which won't immediately resemble a
firewall issue. Nodes might lose all contact, or might only partially lose contact between what will appear to be random
pairs of devices because one of them is blocked from communicating with a specific DERP.
Let your internal devices start UDP from :41641 to \*:\*.
Direct WireGuard tunnels use UDP with source port 41641. We recommend \*:\* because you cannot possibly predict every guest
Wi-fi, coffee shop, LTE provider, or hotel network that your users may be using.
Let your internal devices start UDP to \*:3478.
The STUN protocol lets a machine behind NAT ask a machine on the open internet what IP address it sees, allowing the machine
behind NAT to figure out its public IP address. STUN also reports the port number seen, which lets tailscaled to
determine if it is behind "easy NAT" (source port maps to the same external port for all destinations) or "hard NAT" (port
number varies per destination). tailscaled only sends STUN to DERP servers, but the set of DERP servers expands over time
so we recommend \*:3478 in the rule.
Let your internal devices start HTTP (TCP) connections to \*:80.
For captive portal detection and notifications, Tailscale attempts to contact a set of relay servers that are known to accept incoming connections on TCP port 80. The client executes an unencrypted HTTP request reaching out to a /generate\_204 endpoint on the relay server. This endpoint is expected to return an HTTP response with a 204 status code.
It is not mandatory to allow these connections, and you can safely drop them in your firewall rules, resulting in a timeout. However, captive portal detection won't function properly if disabled.
In July of 2025, the domains login.tailscale.com and controlplane.tailscale.com began resolving to static IP address ranges registered to Tailscale.We recommend configuring firewalls using domain names rather than hardcoding IP addresses. However, if IP-based rules are required, the following ranges should be explicitly allowed:
IPv4: 192.200.0.0/24
IPv6: 2606:B740:49::/48
Scheduled for November of 2025, the domain log.tailscale.com will resolve to static IP address ranges registered to Tailscale.We recommend configuring firewalls using domain names rather than hardcoding IP addresses. However, if IP-based rules are required, the following ranges should be explicitly allowed:
IPv4: 199.165.136.0/24
IPv6: 2606:B740:1::/48
How can I tell if my devices are using a relay?
Relays are used per-device-pair. To check if a device is talking to another device over a relay, run
tailscale status (docs) from either device.
The tailscale status command will return a table of results for every device it can access over Tailscale. For
example:
1 2 3 4 5
100.1.2.3 device-a alice@ linux active; direct , tx 1116 rx 1124
100.4.5.6 device-b bob@ macOS active; relay , tx 1351 rx 4262
100.7.8.9 device-c charlie@ windows idle; tx 1214 rx 50
100.0.1.2 device-d diane@ iOS -
If a device is active in the tailnet, for the connection status (column 5) will contain "direct" for peer-to-peer connections,
along with the IP address used to connect, or "relay" for connections using DERP, along with a city code, such as nyc or fra, for the respective location.
My devices are using a relay. What can I do to help them connect peer-to-peer?
If two of your devices are on difficult networks, allowing connections to UDP
port 41641 on one of them may help Tailscale make a peer-to-peer connection,
rather than falling back to a relay.
On Ubuntu, for example, you can do this with the built-in ufw command by running:
sudo ufw allow 41641/udp
For more information on NAT traversal, our blog post How NAT Traversal Works
shares all the details.
What if I really, really want to specify the hostnames that Tailscale uses to operate its service?
In situations where this is unavoidable you can allow exceptions for a list of fully qualified domain names (FQDNs). We
strongly recommend automating the process of keeping the allowed hostnames in sync to ensure you minimize disruption from
changes made to Tailscale's infrastructure.
The list of coordination servers (required for authentication, key exchange, firewall updates, and so on) is likely
to change, but infrequently:
console.tailscale.com
controlplane.tailscale.com
log.tailscale.com
login.tailscale.com
Additionally, the DERP relay servers (which will definitely change from time to time) are accessed at TCP port 443.
DERP servers are named as derpN where 1 <= \*N\* <= 28 as of August 2025 (the upper range for N is likely to increase). Tailscale creates a derpN-all entry with multiple A (IPv4) and AAAA (IPv6) records, one record per DERP server in the region.
So your allowlist of DERP DNS entries would look like:
derp1-all.tailscale.com
derp2-all.tailscale.com
...
derp28-all.tailscale.com
If you have removed Tailscale's DERP regions from your DERP map, you can skip the DNS entries for the
removed regions.
DERP servers are frequently added or changed, depending on user locations, to optimally serve Tailscale customers. After
a DERP server is added or changed, Tailscale updates DNS entries about 15 minutes later. To access the up-to-date list of
Tailscale DERP servers, visit the DERP map.
Alternatively, you can run this command:
curl https://login.tailscale.com/derpmap/default | jq
Once you've identified the servers, add the relevant A and AAAA records to your firewall configuration.
If your firewall is able to accept a DNS entry to add L3 tailnet policy file entries, will add all the A and AAAA
records it finds, and will periodically refresh its tailnet policy file entries by re-fetching from DNS, you can configure the derpN-all.tailscale.com entries and then not need to constantly update the list of DERP servers.
