# Source: https://coolify.io/docs/services/pingvinshare.md

---
url: /docs/services/pingvinshare.md
description: >-
  Share files on Coolify with PingvinShare for temporary file sharing, expiring
  links, password protection, and self-hosted file transfer.
---

# PingvinShare

::: danger SERVICE REMOVED FROM COOLIFY
This service has been removed from Coolify’s one-click service catalog because it is no longer maintained by the original author. You can find more information about the project being archived [here](https://github.com/stonith404/pingvin-share?tab=readme-ov-file#%EF%B8%8F-project-archived)

We still have the last known working Docker Compose file for this service, so you can deploy it manually by following the installation steps below.
:::

## What is PingvinShare?

PingvinShare is a self-hosted file sharing platform that combines lightness and beauty. It allows you to easily share files with others through temporary links, supports password protection, expiration dates, and provides a clean, modern interface. PingvinShare is designed to be a lightweight alternative to commercial file sharing services while giving you complete control over your data.

## How to deploy PingvinShare with Coolify?

Since PingvinShare is no longer maintained by the original author, a fully automated one-click service installation is no longer available. However, you can still easily deploy the last released version by following the steps below.

## Installation

1. Add a New Resource and select the `Docker Compose Empty` application deployment type.
2. Copy the following [file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coollabsio/coolify/v4.x/templates/compose/pingvinshare.yaml) into the input box (with the comments).
3. Click on the `Save` button.
4. Go to the `PingvinShare` service's settings page (`Settings` button on the right side).
5. Add your custom domain to the `Domains` input box (you can also edit the domains by clicking on the edit icon next to the autogenerated domain).
6. Click on the `Save` button.
7. Click on the `Deploy` button and wait for the deployment to finish.

## Links

* [GitHub](https://github.com/stonith404/pingvin-share?utm_source=coolify.io)
