# Source: https://archivedocs.stackstate.com/self-hosted-setup/release-notes/20240718165243.md

# v1.11.0 - 18/07/2024

## Release Notes StackState version 6.0.0 Helm Chart version 1.11.0

### New Features & Enhancements:

* Trace Explorer: Introduced a new Trace Explorer, accessible via the main menu, providing enhanced visibility into your trace data.
* Microsoft Teams Notifications: Added support for Microsoft Teams notifications, enabling better communication and alerting within your team.
* OpenTelemetry Integration: Added general support for OpenTelemetry Traces and Metrics. OpenTelemetry authentication now also supports [Ingestion API Keys](https://archivedocs.stackstate.com/security/k8s-ingestion-api-keys).
* ClickHouse Database Backups: Added support for full and incremental backups to the ClickHouse database. Backups are disabled by default; follow the documentation to enable and configure this feature.
* Improved Trace Performance: Enhanced storage and query performance for traces. Important: This upgrade will remove all existing trace data.
* OpenShift 4.14 Support: The latest agent now supports OpenShift 4.14.
* Receiver API Key Management: The `stackstate.apiKey` is no longer a required value. You can now supply the receiver API key as a self-managed secret. For more details, refer to the [documentation](https://archivedocs.stackstate.com/agent/k8s-custom-secrets-setup).
* Custom Labels and Annotations: Resources deployed by the `stackstate-k8s-agent` Helm chart resources can now be customized with additional labels and annotations via the `global.extraLabels` and `global.extraAnnotations` Helm values.
* Right-Hand Side Panel Enhancements: The Right-Hand Side panel now includes:
  * Three mini charts showing highlighted metrics.
  * A mini health timeline for better visibility of system health.
  * Similar mini charts have been added to the topology explorer component popover.

### Bug Fixes:

* X-Forwarded-For Logs: Suppressed errors in logs when the `x-forwarded-for` header contains comma-separated list of IP addresses with port numbers.
* Minio Helm Chart: The Minio Helm chart now correctly respects the globally defined `imageRegistry`.
* Saved Queries (Splunk): Fixed a bug where retrieving the list of saved queries was incorrectly pulling data from the global namespace.
* MonitorFunctions on Windows: MonitorFunctions created on Windows OS with `\r` are now converted to UNIX style (). Note: Functions created previously will not be migrated automatically; they must be manually updated by reopening and saving them.

### Security Updates:

* Vulnerabilities Addressed: Fixed several vulnerabilities in the StackState CLI, including:
  * CVE-2022-27664
  * CVE-2022-41721
  * CVE-2022-41723
  * CVE-2023-39325
  * CVE-2023-3978
  * CVE-2023-44487
  * CVE-2022-32149
  * CVE-2024-24786
  * CVE-2022-25645

### Breaking Changes:

* Openshift Installations: For OpenShift installations, the `elasticsearch.prometheus-elasticsearch-exporter.podSecurityContext` must now be set to an empty string ("").
* Propagated Health: Dropped support for propagated health. User can now use the AggregatedHealth monitor to get an aggregated health state on higher level components.

### Other Updates:

* MetricBindings Management: Added permissions to manage `MetricBindings`, which are assigned to the `stackstate-k8s-admin` role.
* Topological Relations: Fixed missing indirect relations for paths containing hierarchical relations.
