# Source: https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution.md

# About SonarQube Cloud solution

- [Ressources structure](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/ressources-structure.md): Your SonarQube Cloud projects, organization, and enterprise structure is organized in methodical way. These pages help you understand where dependencies and connections lay.
- [Organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/ressources-structure/organization.md): SonarQube Cloud mirrors the organization-based structure of your DevOps platform. Projects are grouped together for collaborative work and permission management.
- [Organization's projects](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/ressources-structure/projects.md): SonarQube Cloud projects represent DevOps platform repos and can be public or private, with binding to the repository determining visibility. Project permissions are managed through user groups.
- [Enterprise](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/ressources-structure/enterprise.md): SonarQube Cloud's Enterprise plan allows the centralized administration of multiple Organizations which may or may not be linked to multiple DevOps platforms.
- [Binding with the DevOps platform](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/ressources-structure/binding-with-dop.md): Your organizations and projects in SonarQube Cloud are bound to their respective organization or repository on GitHub, Bitbucket Cloud, GitLab, or Azure DevOps.
- [User management](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/user-management.md): This section groups together a few basic concepts that should be understood when managing your SonarQube Cloud user accounts.
- [User group concept](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/user-management/user-group-concept.md): To manage user permissions more easily in SonarQube Cloud, the members of your organization are managed through groups.
- [Associated SCM accounts](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/user-management/associated-scm-accounts.md): SonarQube Cloud uses the association of users with Source Control Management (SCM) accounts to automatically assign issues to users.
- [Default authentication through DevOps platform](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/user-management/devops-platform-authentication.md): By default, users can authenticate to SonarQube Cloud with their existing credentials on their DevOps platform service (DOP). No additional setup is required.
- [GitHub member synchronization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/user-management/github-member-synchronization.md): The GitHub member synchronization allows the automatic synchronization of organization members between GitHub and SonarQube Cloud.
