# Source: https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud.md

# Administering SonarQube Cloud

- [About SonarQube Cloud solution](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution.md): This section explains solution concepts you require to administer SonarQube Cloud.
- [Ressources structure](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/ressources-structure.md): Your SonarQube Cloud projects, organization, and enterprise structure is organized in methodical way. These pages help you understand where dependencies and connections lay.
- [Organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/ressources-structure/organization.md): SonarQube Cloud mirrors the organization-based structure of your DevOps platform. Projects are grouped together for collaborative work and permission management.
- [Organization's projects](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/ressources-structure/projects.md): SonarQube Cloud projects represent DevOps platform repos and can be public or private, with binding to the repository determining visibility. Project permissions are managed through user groups.
- [Enterprise](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/ressources-structure/enterprise.md): SonarQube Cloud's Enterprise plan allows the centralized administration of multiple Organizations which may or may not be linked to multiple DevOps platforms.
- [Binding with the DevOps platform](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/ressources-structure/binding-with-dop.md): Your organizations and projects in SonarQube Cloud are bound to their respective organization or repository on GitHub, Bitbucket Cloud, GitLab, or Azure DevOps.
- [User management](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/user-management.md): This section groups together a few basic concepts that should be understood when managing your SonarQube Cloud user accounts.
- [User group concept](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/user-management/user-group-concept.md): To manage user permissions more easily in SonarQube Cloud, the members of your organization are managed through groups.
- [Associated SCM accounts](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/user-management/associated-scm-accounts.md): SonarQube Cloud uses the association of users with Source Control Management (SCM) accounts to automatically assign issues to users.
- [Default authentication through DevOps platform](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/user-management/devops-platform-authentication.md): By default, users can authenticate to SonarQube Cloud with their existing credentials on their DevOps platform service (DOP). No additional setup is required.
- [GitHub member synchronization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/about-sonarqube-cloud-solution/user-management/github-member-synchronization.md): The GitHub member synchronization allows the automatic synchronization of organization members between GitHub and SonarQube Cloud.
- [Managing your subscription](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-subscription.md): Understanding how to manage your SonarQube Cloud subscription plan, billing, and any changes you might need to make, can be found here.
- [Introduction](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-subscription/introduction.md): The SonarQube Cloud subscription plans are: free, Team, or Enterprise.
- [Subscription plans](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-subscription/subscription-plans.md): SonarQube Cloud offers three subscription-based plans: Free, Team, and Enterprise, each with varying features and suitable for different team sizes.
- [Billing model](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-subscription/billing-model.md): In SonarQube Cloud each Team or Enterprise plan organization is billed separately. You can be billed monthly or yearly.
- [Signing up for a plan](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-subscription/signing-up-for-plan.md): Signing up for a SonarQube Cloud subscription happens at the organization level.
- [Changing your subscription plan](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-subscription/changing-plan.md): Changing your SonarQube Cloud plan is straight forward however, it depends on the move you're making (upgrade/downgrade) and if your on a monthly or yearly subscription billing schedule.
- [Updating billing or payment details](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-subscription/updating-billing-payment-details.md): SonarQube Cloud's monthly subscribers can directly update the billing and payment details of their organization.  Read this page to learn about how to add, remove, or change your payment method.
- [Viewing billing or usage information](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-subscription/viewing-billing-and-usage.md): This page provides instructions on how to view billing and usage information for both SonarQube Cloud organizations and enterprises.
- [Viewing taxes and invoices](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-subscription/viewing-taxes-and-invoices.md): This page explains how to access monthly invoices for your SonarQube Cloud subscriptions, detailing the steps to view and download them from the customer portal.
- [Managing your organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization.md): How to create your organization, manage their members, and set up analysis features at the organization level.
- [Organization setup overview](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setup-overview.md): The procedure below explains how to set up your organization in SonarQube Cloud when your system uses DevOps platform (DOP) authentication.
- [Creating and editing your organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization.md): Creating and editing your SonarQube Cloud organization differs slightly depending on your DevOps platform or if you're creating it manually. These pages help you understand each step along the way.
- [Importing GitHub organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/importing-github-organization.md): This page helps you understand how to import your GitHub organization into SonarQube Cloud and explains key details about modifying the necessary repository access rights.
- [Importing Bitbucket workspace](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/importing-bitbucket-workspace.md): This page helps you understand how to import your Bitbucket workspace into SonarQube Cloud and explains prerequisites and key procedures.
- [Importing GitLab group](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/importing-gitlab-group.md): This page helps you understand how to import your GitLab group into SonarQube Cloud and explains prerequisites and key procedures.
- [Importing Azure DevOps organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/importing-azure-devops-organization.md): This page helps you understand how to import your Azure DevOps organization into SonarQube Cloud and explains prerequisites and key procedures.
- [Creating organization manually](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/creating-organization-manually.md): You can manually create your SonarQube Cloud organization manually however, you will not benefit from the advantages of binding your projects to a DevOps organization.
- [Changing organization binding](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/changing-organization-binding.md): You can use the workaround described on this page to change the binding of a SonarQube Cloud organization bound to a GitHub or Bitbucket organization.
- [Binding an unbound organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/binding-unbound-organization.md): Binding your unbound SonarQube Cloud organization is slightly different depending on your DevOps platform.
- [Security contact](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/security-contact.md): As an administrator of your organization you can set up a dedicated contact for urgent, security-related communications.
- [Changing organization settings](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/changing-organization-settings.md): SonarQube Cloud allows to change your organization key, requiring private-only projects, and change the token used to connect to GitLab or Azure DevOps organization.
- [Deleting organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/deleting-organization.md): Organization administrators can delete an organization in SonarQube Cloud either from the "My Organizations" page or directly from the organization's administration settings.
- [Using multiple accounts](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/importing-from-multiple-platforms.md): This page explains that when importing an organization into SonarQube Cloud, the importing account automatically becomes an administrator; other accounts must be added manually.
- [Managing users and permissions](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/users-and-permissions.md): This section contains instructions to manage your organization's members, including user groups and permissions, and user account deletion.
- [Adding organization members](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/users-and-permissions/organization-members.md): This section explains how to add and remove members to and from a SonarQube Cloud organization.
- [Managing user groups](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/users-and-permissions/user-groups.md): SonarQube Cloud's user groups can be used to manage organization members and their permissions. This section explains how to manage user groups.
- [Managing organization permissions](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/users-and-permissions/organization-permissions.md): This section explains how to manage the permissions related to your SonarQube Cloud organization.
- [Disabling GitHub member synchronization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/users-and-permissions/github-member-sync.md): When you import a GitHub organization to SonarQube Cloud, GitHub member synchronization is enabled by default provided Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication is not enabled.
- [User onboarding and offboarding](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/users-and-permissions/user-on-and-offboarding.md): User onboarding is automatic. You can only delete your own user account.
- [Performing global analysis setup](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level.md): When performing a global analysis in SonarQube Cloud, you can manage new code definition, long-lived branch pattern, analysis scope, and control your quality standards to apply to all new projects.
- [Introduction](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/introduction.md): With SonarQube Cloud Enterprise, your can define default settings for long-lived branch patterns, automatic analysis, and set your analysis scope, all of which can be overridden at the project level.
- [Setting new code definition](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/setting-new-code-definition-at-organization-level.md): SonarQube Cloud Project administrators can set the default the new code definition.
- [Setting long-lived branch pattern](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/setting-long-lived-branch-pattern.md): This section explains how to define a long-lived branches name pattern in SonarQube Cloud at your organization level.
- [Adjusting analysis scope](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/adjusting-analysis-scope.md): With the SonarQube Cloud Enterprise plan, you can set and adjust your analysis scope at the organization level.
- [Introduction](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/adjusting-analysis-scope/introduction.md): As an organization admin, you can define in the UI an analysis scope adjustment at the organization level.
- [Excluding from coverage or duplication](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/adjusting-analysis-scope/exclude-from-coverage-duplication.md): Excluding specific files from code coverage or duplication check can be defined at the organization level for your SonarQube Cloud organization.
- [Excluding files based on file paths](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/adjusting-analysis-scope/excluding-files-based-on-file-paths.md): To exclude files from your SonarQube Cloud project’s analysis scope based on file paths, you can define file exclusion parameters based on directory and file name patterns.
- [Using advanced exclusion features](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/adjusting-analysis-scope/advanced-exclusion-features.md): In very specific situations, you may have to define, at the organization level, the exclusion of code from the analysis using SonarQube Cloud's advanced exclusion features.
- [Disabling automatic analysis](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/disabling-automatic-analysis.md): This page explains how to disable the automatic analysis in SonarQube Cloud at the organization level.
- [Managing quality standards](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/quality-standards.md): This page outlines how to manage organization-level quality standards in SonarQube Cloud, specifically focusing on the "quality gate fudge factor."
- [Managing organization's projects](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/manage-org-projects.md): Managing your SonarQube Cloud organization's projects involves using the Project Management page and understanding project permissions. This section also contains information about migrating projects.
- [Using Projects Management page](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/manage-org-projects/projects-management-page.md): As the organization admin, you can manage your organization’s SonarQube Cloud projects on a centralized page called the Projects management page.
- [Managing project permissions](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/manage-org-projects/manage-project-permissions.md): Managing project permissions in SonarQube Cloud involves using permission templates and restoring administrator access.
- [Using permission templates](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/manage-org-projects/manage-project-permissions/templates.md): As the organization admin in SonarQube Cloud, using permission templates allows you to define permissions granted by default on new projects and various sets of permissions.
- [Restoring administrator access](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/manage-org-projects/manage-project-permissions/recovering-admin-access.md): This page explains how to recover administrator access to a project of your SonarQube Cloud organization.
- [Migrating projects](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/manage-org-projects/migrate-projects-to-another-org.md): A SonarQube Cloud organization cannot be re-bound to another organization however, you can move projects if needed. This page explains how to migrate projects between organizations.
- [Managing Scoped Organization Tokens](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/scoped-organization-tokens.md): Scoped Organization Tokens provide a secure way to manage non-user-specific authentication.
- [Connecting to Slack](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/connecting-to-slack.md): With the SonarQube Cloud integration with Slack, users can receive real-time notifications on analysis results directly in Slack.
- [About SonarQube Cloud integration with Slack](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/connecting-to-slack/integration-overview.md): Understanding how the SonarQube Cloud integration with Slack works.
- [Setting up the connection to Slack](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/connecting-to-slack/setup.md): How to install the SonarQube app for Slack in your workspace.
- [Managing your enterprise](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise.md): How to set up & update your enterprise, set up the enterprise security features, and manage the permissions set at the enterprise level.
- [Retrieving and viewing your enterprise](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/retrieving-and-viewing-your-enterprise.md): You can view the enterprises you’re an admin or a member of.
- [Creating your enterprise](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/creating-your-enterprise.md): With the Enterprise license, you can group together SonarQube Cloud organizations from different DevOps platforms into an enterprise and benefit from many features.
- [Enterprise security](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security.md): How to enhance your enterprise security with various security features.
- [IP allow lists](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/ip-allow-lists.md): How to restrict the IP allow list for SonarQube Cloud
- [Audit logs](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/audit-logs.md): The initial release of SonarQube Cloud's audit logs provides you with the essential data you need to meet your immediate compliance and security needs.
- [Single Sign-On](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso.md): This section explains the Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication solution in SonarQube Cloud and how to set it up.
- [About SSO authentication solution](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/about.md): This page provides an overview of the SSO authentication solution in SonarQube Cloud.
- [Automatic group synchronization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/about/automatic-group-synchronization.md): This page describes the automatic group synchronization solution in SonarQube Cloud.
- [Setting up SSO](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup.md): With the Enterprise plan, you can transition your SonarQube Cloud enterprise to Single Sign-On.
- [Step 1: Verify the user groups](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/verify-user-groups.md): Before configuring SSO for your SonarQube Cloud enterprise, you must ensure that the automatic group synchronization can take place properly.
- [Step 2: Configure SSO](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/configure-sso.md): The second step in configuring SSO for your SonarQube Cloud enterprise varies slightly, depending on your identity provider. If you use Okta or Microsoft Entra ID, go directly to the respective page.
- [Using the setup assistant (generic operation)](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/configure-sso/generic-operation.md): This page explains how to configure SSO with SonarQube Cloud’s setup assistant if you use another identity provider than Okta or Microsoft Entra ID.
- [SAML SSO with Okta](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/configure-sso/okta.md): This page explains how to setup SAML SSO with Okta and SonarQube Cloud's SSO setup assistant.
- [SAML SSO with Entra ID](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/configure-sso/microsoft-entra-id.md): This page explains how to configure SAML SSO in your enterprise with Microsoft Entra ID while using SonarQube Cloud's setup assistant.
- [Step 3: Invite users to sign in](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/inviting-users-to-sign-in.md): Once the SSO connection has been established, you can invite users to sign in to SonarQube Cloud with SSO by sending them the enterprise’s login URL.
- [Step 4: Terminate SSO setup](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/terminate-setup.md): This page describes how to terminate your Single Sign-On (SSO) setup in SonarQube Cloud.
- [Editing SSO configuration](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/editing-sso-configuration.md): After setup, editing your SSO configuration in SonarQube Cloud is straight-forward.
- [Editing SSO configuration (old method)](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/editing-configuration-old-method.md): Editing your SSO configuration in SonarQube Cloud was recently improved using the SSO setup assistant. These pages outline the previous editing procedures (without the SSO setup assistant).
- [Introduction](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/editing-configuration-old-method/introduction.md): This page explains the generic steps necessary to edit the SAML SSO configuration you established in SonarQube Cloud using the older method (without the SSO setup assistant).
- [With Okta](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/editing-configuration-old-method/okta.md): This page explains how to edit the SAML SSO configuration you established in SonarQube Cloud with Okta and using the old method (without the SSO setup assistant).
- [With Microsoft Entra ID](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/editing-configuration-old-method/microsoft-entra-id.md): This page explains how to edit the SAML SSO configuration you established in SonarQube Cloud with Microsoft Entra ID while using the old method (without the SSO setup assistant).
- [Deleting SSO configuration](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/deleting-sso-configuration.md): As an enterprise admin, you can delete your enterprise’s SSO configuration in SonarQube Cloud either in the UI or via the Web API.
- [Troubleshooting SSO connection](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/troubleshooting.md): Troubleshooting your SSO connection can be tricky. Here's a list of items to check in SonarQube Cloud and with your identity provider.
- [Adding organizations to your enterprise](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/adding-organizations-to-your-enterprise.md): Adding or removing organizations to / from your enterprise.
- [Managing the enterprise-related permissions](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/managing-the-enterprise-related-permissions.md): You must be an admin of the enterprise to be able to manage the permissions.
- [Managing the lines of code within your enterprise](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/managing-the-lines-of-code-within-your-enterprise.md): You must be an enterprise admin to be able to manage the lines of code (LOC) limits within your enterprise.
- [Changing enterprise settings](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/changing-enterprise-settings.md): You can rename your enterprise provided you're an enterprise admin.
- [Downgrading your enterprise](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/downgrading-your-enterprise.md): How to downgrade an enterprise.
- [AI features](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/ai-features.md): SonarQube Cloud offers a series of AI features that are managed at the organization and enterprise levels to help you produce secure and maintainable code.
- [Autodetect AI code](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/ai-features/autodetect-ai-code.md): Autodetect AI-Generated Code is turned on by default in SonarQube Cloud, but your DevOps provider must give the appropriate permissions to allow communication with SonarQube.
- [Permissions for AI Autodetect](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/ai-features/permissions-for-ai-autodetect.md): Setting up AI autodetection in SonarQube Cloud requires that a DevOps platform administrator set the correct permission level in your AI-powered web service.
- [Enable AI CodeFix](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/ai-features/enable-ai-codefix.md): Enabling AI CodeFix for your SonarQube Cloud organization is a straight-forward process. Simply enable AI CodeFix in the UI, choose your LLM provider, and allow project access.
- [SonarQube Remediation Agent](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/ai-features/sonarqube-remediation-agent.md): The SonarQube Remediation Agent will suggest fixes for issues found during your pull request analysis.
- [Advanced administration](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/advanced-administration.md): How to manage advanced administration tasks.
