# Source: https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-cloud/advanced-setup/languages/vb-net.md

# VB.NET

### Supported versions <a href="#supported-versions" id="supported-versions"></a>

The level of support for a language is defined as follows:

* Fully supported: Analysis will complete. All the language features are understood and examined.
* Supported: Most language features are understood and examined but the version includes unsupported features. Analysis might break or provide incomplete results.

Versions 7 to 16 are fully supported.

### Supported frameworks and tools <a href="#supported-frameworks-and-tools" id="supported-frameworks-and-tools"></a>

ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Core MVC

### Language-specific properties <a href="#language-specific-properties" id="language-specific-properties"></a>

To discover and update the VB.NET-specific properties, navigate in SonarQube Cloud to *Your Project* > **Administration** > **General Settings** > **Languages** > **VB.NET**. See the [analysis-parameters](https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-cloud/advanced-setup/analysis-parameters "mention") page for more information about specific properties.

#### Analyze Generated Code <a href="#analyze-generated-code" id="analyze-generated-code"></a>

To analyze tool-generated code (e.g. WCF code generated by `SvcUtil.exe`) for a specific VB.NET project, enable the "Analyze generated code" setting inside **Project** > **Administration** > **General Settings** > **Languages** > **VB.NET**. By default, tool-generated code files are skipped from the analysis.

The detection of generated code is based on the file name, special comments, and attributes. The currently recognized values are in [GeneratedCodeRecognizer.cs](https://github.com/SonarSource/sonar-dotnet/blob/master/analyzers/src/SonarAnalyzer.Core/Syntax/Utilities/GeneratedCodeRecognizer.cs).

{% hint style="info" %}
When a `Generated` comment is present in the file, SonarQube ignores the *entire* \*\* *file*, even if only parts of it were generated. It’s possible to enable or disable analysis of *files containing generated code* at the project level in *Your project* > **Administration** > **General Settings** > **Languages** > *Your language* > **Analyze generated code**.
{% endhint %}

### Scanner compatibility <a href="#scanner-compatibility" id="scanner-compatibility"></a>

To analyze VB.NET code, you need to use the [introduction](https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-cloud/advanced-setup/ci-based-analysis/sonarscanner-for-dotnet/introduction "mention") version 4.x or newer.

### Exclusions <a href="#exclusions" id="exclusions"></a>

Files to be excluded should be set in the project configuration. Excluded files are still going to be analyzed during the compilation and the results will be filtered according to the exclusion settings.

As an alternative, a `.editorconfig` file can be used to disable the analysis for a specific rule on a file or directory. This can solve performance problems on large files.

```css-79elbk
[Path/File.vb]
dotnet_diagnostic.Sxxx.severity = none
```

### Known Limitations <a href="#known-limitations" id="known-limitations"></a>

Currently, an error will be thrown when an issue is raised on a line of code containing the following pattern `\s+error\s*:` (i.e. one or more spaces, the string ‘error’, zero or more spaces, and a ‘:’ ). This is a well-known problem on the Microsoft side (see [issue](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/issues/5724/)). In order to work around this problem, the analysis will skip issues reported on any line where the pattern is detected.

### Related pages <a href="#related-pages" id="related-pages"></a>

* [Investigating the performance of .NET Analysis](https://community.sonarsource.com/t/the-sonarsource-guide-for-investigating-the-performance-of-net-analysis/47279), on the Sonar Community
* See the [external-analyzer-reports](https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-cloud/enriching/external-analyzer-reports "mention") page about importing external issues (VSTest, NUnit, MSTest, xUnit)
  * Also on that page, see the [#notes-on-external-.net-c-or-vb.net-issues](https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-cloud/enriching/external-analyzer-reports#notes-on-external-.net-c-or-vb.net-issues "mention") article.
* [dotnet-test-coverage](https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-cloud/enriching/test-coverage/dotnet-test-coverage "mention") (Visual Studio Code Coverage, dotCover, OpenCover, Coverlet, Altcover)
* [sonarscanner-for-dotnet](https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-cloud/advanced-setup/ci-based-analysis/sonarscanner-for-dotnet "mention")
* [sonarcloud-extension-for-azure-devops](https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-cloud/advanced-setup/ci-based-analysis/sonarcloud-extension-for-azure-devops "mention")
* [Specifying test projects](https://app.gitbook.com/s/yDv2XwTC1xoOKBYeCK45/analyzing-source-code/dotnet-environments/specify-test-project-analysis "mention") (the page is in the SonarQube Server docs, but also applies when setting up SonarQube Cloud .NET projects)
