# Source: https://docs.pentaho.com/install/9.3-install/pentaho-upgrade-cp/post-upgrade-tasks-pentaho-ugrade-cp/apply-customizations-post-upgrade-tasks/address-customizations-to-upgraded-archive-installation-post-upgrade-customization-task.md

# Source: https://docs.pentaho.com/install/10.2-install/pentaho-upgrade-cp/post-upgrade-tasks-pentaho-ugrade-cp/apply-customizations-post-upgrade-tasks/address-customizations-to-upgraded-archive-installation-post-upgrade-customization-task.md

# Address customizations to upgraded archive installation

Address customizations to your archive installation by reviewing the post-install report generated by the Pentaho Upgrade Installer.

The Pentaho Upgrade Installer generates a post-install report containing a list of items that you might have customized from the default Pentaho setup. This `postInstallConfigReport.txt` file is generated from the CSV file that you might have updated during the upgrade process. See [Specify customized items to address after upgrading](https://docs.pentaho.com/install/10.2-install/pentaho-upgrade-cp/using-the-pentaho-upgrade-installer/use-the-pentaho-upgrade-installer-to-upgrade-archive-installation/specify-items-to-include-or-exclude-pentaho-upgrade) for instructions.

For items listed in the CSV file that you want to keep in the 10.2 upgrade, you must address how your customizations are applied with the 10.2 features available in post-upgrade versions of these items.

Perform the following steps to address your customizations with Pentaho 10.2 versions of items listed in the post-install report:

1. Navigate to the `<root installation directory>/Pentaho__Installation` directory.
2. Open the `postInstallConfigReport.txt` file in a text editor.

   This report contains the following sections:

   * `These config files need merged`
   * `These config files were not updated by the upgrade, but were changed pre-upgrade`
   * `These config files were not found in the upgrade`
   * `These config files were identical to the upgraded files`
3. For each item listed in the `These config files need merged` section of the post-install report, open both the existing version and the version with the `.merge.post_upgrade` extension to compare their differences.
4. Verify the differences between the item's two versions and perform one of the following actions:
   1. If the upgrade process changes are minor, such as a single date change, then retain your existing version by deleting the post-upgrade version.
   2. If your existing content and the Pentaho 10.2 changes both apply for your setup, then merge the differences of the two versions into one item with the same name as the existing version.
   3. If your existing content can be overwritten by the upgrade process changes, then replace the existing version with the post-upgrade version.

Your customizations now appear in your 10.2 Pentaho products.
