# Source: https://docs.pentaho.com/pba/semantic-model-editor/editing-a-semantic-model/edit-a-cube/edit-a-dimension-in-a-cube.md

# Edit a dimension in a cube

Edit a dimension, its hierarchies, and the levels of those hierarchies, to change the properties that describe the dimension and control its visibility and availability. Dimensions describe aggregated data in a cube so that the data can be grouped for analysis.&#x20;

Complete the following steps to edit a dimension in a cube.&#x20;

1. Log into the **Pentaho User Console** (PUC). &#x20;
2. Open the Semantic Model Editor by taking one of the following actions:

   * If you are using the Modern Design of PUC, in the menu on the left side of the page, click **Semantic Model Editor**.
   * If you are using the Classic Design of PUC, click **File** > **Semantic Model Editor**.&#x20;

   The **Semantic Model Editor** opens.&#x20;
3. Open the semantic model that contains the cube with a dimension you want to edit by completing the following sub steps:
   * In the **Semantic Models** list, navigate to the model you want to open by searching or scrolling through the list.&#x20;
   * Click **Open**. The model opens in the **Canvas** view.&#x20;
4. On the canvas, locate the cube and dimension node that contains the dimension you want to edit.&#x20;

   <div data-gb-custom-block data-tag="hint" data-style="info" class="hint hint-info"><p><strong>Note:</strong> To locate an element in a large semantic model, you can click the <strong>Model Structure</strong> tab and then navigate to the element by searching or scrolling through the list. </p></div>
5. Next to the dimension’s name, click the **More Actions** icon and select **Edit**. The **Dimension Editor** window opens.&#x20;
6. Edit dimension properties by updating one or more of the following sections:
   1. In the **Dimension Name** section, enter a new unique **Name** in the scope of the cube.&#x20;
   2. In the **Connect to the Facts Table** section, select a different **Fact Table Column**.&#x20;
   3. In the **Dimension Type** section, select a different **Type** of dimension. The following dimension types are available:

      <table><thead><tr><th width="173.7777099609375">Option </th><th>Description </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>StandardDimension </td><td>A dimension used for basic analysis. <strong>StandardDimension</strong> is the default type.</td></tr><tr><td>TimeDimension </td><td>A dimension used for time-based analysis. A time dimension might have annotations like Year, Month, and Week. </td></tr></tbody></table>
7. Expand the **Optional Information** section and edit one or more of the following options: &#x20;

   <table><thead><tr><th width="126.88897705078125">Option </th><th>Description </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Visible </td><td>Value indicating whether the dimension element is visible in the <strong>Pentaho Analyzer</strong> design environment. Elements that are not visible cannot be accessed directly in <strong>Pentaho Analyzer</strong> to use in reports. However, hidden elements can still be used to build expressions and conditions that are internally evaluated by the Mondrian engine for reporting. The default value is <strong>true</strong>.  </td></tr><tr><td>Usage Prefix </td><td>String of text added to the beginning of the column name when building collapsed dimension aggregates to indicate how the dimension is used. Usage prefixes enable the system to accurately recognize and associate columns during aggregate table matching. </td></tr></tbody></table>
8. Expand the **Describe Dimension** section and edit one or more of the following options:&#x20;

   <table><thead><tr><th width="119.1112060546875">Option </th><th>Description </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Caption </td><td>String of text that is displayed instead of the dimension’s name. You can use captions to provide a user-friendly label for reports or for localization so that the dimension’s name appears in the local language. </td></tr><tr><td>Description </td><td>Description of the cube. </td></tr></tbody></table>
9. In the **Dimension** tree, select a hierarchy that you want to edit. &#x20;
10. Edit hierarchy properties by updating one or more of the following sections:&#x20;
    * In the **Hierarchy Name** section, enter a new, unique **Name**.&#x20;

      <div data-gb-custom-block data-tag="hint" data-style="info" class="hint hint-info"><p><strong>Note:</strong> All hierarchies in a dimension must have a unique name. An empty name is considered unique and can be used only once for a hierarchy in the dimension. </p></div>
    * In the **Mandary Data** section, edit one or more of the following options:

      <table><thead><tr><th width="138">Option </th><th>Description </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Source Table* </td><td>Table used as the source of data for the hierarchy. </td></tr><tr><td>Alias </td><td>Unique text string used as an alias for the table in queries. You can assign an alias to a table used in multiple hierarchies to ensure that SQL queries work correctly. By default, the table name is used in queries. </td></tr><tr><td>Hierarchy Key </td><td>Unique text string that connects the table or view produced by the hierarchy to the cube’s fact table, which enables accurate joins between dimension data and fact data during query execution. </td></tr><tr><td>Has All* </td><td>Value indicating whether the hierarchy has an “all” member. The "all" member is the parent of all other hierarchy members, representing the total. The default value is <strong>true</strong>. </td></tr></tbody></table>

      \*Required&#x20;
    * Expand the **Optional Information** section and edit one or more of the following options:

      <table><thead><tr><th width="175.333251953125">Option</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Visible </td><td>Value indicating whether the hierarchy element is visible in the <strong>Pentaho Analyzer</strong> design environment. Elements that are not visible cannot be accessed directly in <strong>Pentaho Analyzer</strong> to use in reports. However, hidden elements can still be used to build expressions and conditions that are internally evaluated by the Mondrian engine for reporting. The default value is <strong>true</strong>. </td></tr><tr><td>All Member Name </td><td><p>Name of the “all” member if the hierarchy has an “all” member. Default value is '<strong>All hierarchyName</strong>',  </p><p>for example, 'All Store' </p><p> </p></td></tr><tr><td>All Member Caption </td><td>A string of text that is displayed instead of the "all” member’s name. You can use captions to provide a user-friendly label for reports or for localization so that the "all” member’s name appears in the local language. </td></tr><tr><td>All Level Name </td><td>Name of the “all” level. The “all” level is the topmost level in a hierarchy and contains only the “all” member, which represents the total aggregation of all members in the hierarchy below it. </td></tr><tr><td>Default Member </td><td>Default member of the hierarchy. </td></tr><tr><td>Member Reader Class </td><td><p>Name of the custom reader class. The custom reader class must implement the <code>mondrian.rolap.MemberReader</code> interface.  </p><p> </p><p>A custom reader class is a user-defined Java class that extends Mondrian’s default behavior for reading members of a dimension so that you can customize how dimension members are retrieved and displayed in OLAP queries.  </p></td></tr><tr><td>Origin </td><td><p>A bit mask that determines the source of the hierarchy: </p><ul><li>MD_ORIGIN_USER_DEFINED identifies levels in a user defined hierarchy (0x0000001). </li><li>MD_ORIGIN_ATTRIBUTE identifies levels in an attribute hierarchy (0x0000002). </li><li>MD_ORIGIN_INTERNAL identifies levels in attribute hierarchies that are not enabled (0x0000004). </li><li>MD_ORIGIN_KEY_ATTRIBUTE identifies levels in a key attribute hierarchy (0x0000008). </li></ul><p>The default value is <strong>MD_ORIGIN_USER_DEFINED</strong>. For Measure the default value is <strong>MD_ORIGIN_ATTRIBUTE &#x26; MD_ORIGIN_INTERNAL (0x0000006)</strong>. </p></td></tr><tr><td>Display Folder </td><td>String value to specify the folder in which to list the hierarchy for users in <strong>Pentaho Analyzer</strong>.</td></tr><tr><td>Unique Key Level Name </td><td><p>Name of the level within the hierarchy.  </p><p> </p><p>The Unique Key Level Name is used to indicate that the given level taken together with all higher levels in the hierarchy acts as a unique alternate key, ensuring that for any unique combination of those level values there is exactly one combination of values for all levels below it. </p></td></tr></tbody></table>
    * Expand the Describe Hierarchy section and edit one or more of the following options:

      <table><thead><tr><th width="122.8887939453125">Option </th><th>Description </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Caption </td><td>String of text that is displayed instead of the hierarchy’s name. You can use captions to provide a user-friendly label for hierarchies or for localization so that the hierarchy’s name appears in the local language. </td></tr><tr><td>Description </td><td>Description of the hierarchy. </td></tr></tbody></table>
11. In the **Dimension** tree, select a level that you want to edit. &#x20;
12. Edit level properties by updating one or more of the following sections:&#x20;
    * In the **Level Name** section, enter a new, unique **Name**.&#x20;

      <div data-gb-custom-block data-tag="hint" data-style="info" class="hint hint-info"><p><strong>Note</strong>: All levels in a hierarchy must have a unique name. An empty name is considered unique and can be used only once for a level in the dimension. </p></div>
    * In the **Level Source** section, edit one or more of the following options:

      <table><thead><tr><th width="127.3333740234375">Option </th><th>Description </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Source Table </td><td>Table that is the source for the level. </td></tr><tr><td>Column </td><td>Column of the source table that that you want to use for the level. If a column is not selected, a <code>KeyExpression</code> must be defined in the Advanced mode instead or an error occurs when you try to save the model. For details, see <a href="../../advanced-mode">Advanced mode</a>.</td></tr></tbody></table>
    * In the **Relevant Information** section, edit one or more of the following options:&#x20;

      <table><thead><tr><th width="153.111083984375">Option </th><th>Description </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Name Column </td><td><p>Column of the table that contains the user identifier of the level. </p><div data-gb-custom-block data-tag="hint" data-style="info" class="hint hint-info"><p><strong>Note:</strong> Instead of selecting a specific column, you can define a <code>NameExpression</code> in the <code>Level</code> element of a SQL expression to use as the user identifier. For details, see <a href="https://open-2v.gitbook.com/~space/dbSFXbJFiObHB299lSSa/~/changes/t2kt8ssMcRL9ysypKbfv/~gitbook/pdf?back=false&#x26;only=yes&#x26;page=BN8aCJ7V1POiHJqh8Hrr#pdf-page-EQsu44rlUDmwreD5UqpH">Advanced mode</a>.</p></div></td></tr><tr><td>Ordinal Column </td><td><p>Column of the table that contains the member ordinals for the level. </p><div data-gb-custom-block data-tag="hint" data-style="info" class="hint hint-info"><p><strong>Note:</strong> If the Ordinal Column is not specified, the key column is used for ordering. Instead of selecting a specific column, you can define an <code>OrdinalExpression</code> in the <code>Level</code> element of a SQL expression to use for ordering. For details, see <a href="https://open-2v.gitbook.com/~space/dbSFXbJFiObHB299lSSa/~/changes/t2kt8ssMcRL9ysypKbfv/~gitbook/pdf?back=false&#x26;only=yes&#x26;page=BN8aCJ7V1POiHJqh8Hrr#pdf-page-EQsu44rlUDmwreD5UqpH">Advanced mode</a></p></div></td></tr></tbody></table>
    * Expand the **Optional Information** section and edit one or more of the following options:&#x20;

      <table><thead><tr><th width="160">Option </th><th>Description </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Visible</td><td>Value indicating whether the level element is visible in the <strong>Pentaho Analyzer</strong> design environment. Elements that are not visible cannot be accessed directly in <strong>Pentaho Analyzer</strong> to use in reports. However, hidden elements can still be used to build expressions and conditions that are internally evaluated by the Mondrian engine for reporting. The default value is <strong>true</strong>. </td></tr><tr><td>Approximate Row Count  </td><td>Estimated number of members in the level. Setting an approximate row count can improve performance. </td></tr><tr><td>Null Parent Value  </td><td>Value that identifies null parents in a parent-child hierarchy. Typical values are NULL and 0. </td></tr><tr><td>Key Column Type  </td><td><p>The type of data in the key column for the level. Types of data include STRING, NUMERIC, INTEGER, BOOLEAN, DATE, TIME, and TIMESTAMP. </p><p> </p><p>When generating SQL statements, Mondrian encloses values for String columns in quotation marks but leaves values for Integer and Numeric columns unquoted. Date, Time, and Timestamp values are quoted according to the SQL dialect. For a SQL-compliant dialect, the values appear prefixed by their type name, for example, DATE '2006-06-01'. </p></td></tr><tr><td>Internal Type  </td><td><p>The Java type that Mondrian uses to store the level's key column. Types include INT, LONG, OBJECT, and STRING.  </p><p> </p><p>The Internal Type value also determines the JDBC method that Mondrian calls to retrieve the column. For example, if the Java type is INT, Mondrian calls ResultSet.getInt(int). </p><p> </p><p>Usually, the Internal Type attribute is not needed, because Mondrian chooses a type based on the type of database column. </p></td></tr><tr><td>Unique Members  </td><td>Value that indicates whether members are unique across all parents in the level. For example, zip codes are unique across all states. Members of the first level are always unique. The default value is <strong>false</strong>. </td></tr><tr><td>Level Type  </td><td>Value that indicates whether the level is a regular or a time-related level. The level type is important for time-related functions such as YTD (year-to-date). The default value is <strong>Regular</strong>.</td></tr><tr><td>Hide Member If  </td><td><p>Value that indicates when a member of the level is hidden.  </p><ul><li><strong>Never</strong>: Member is never hidden. </li><li><strong>IfBlankName</strong>: Member is hidden if its name is null or empty. </li><li><strong>IfParentsName</strong>: Member is hidden if its name matches the parent’s name. </li></ul><p>The default value is <strong>Never</strong>. </p></td></tr><tr><td>Formatter Class  </td><td><p>Formatter class name for the member labels displayed. The class must implement the <code>mondrian.olap.MemberFormatter</code> interface. </p><p> </p><p>A formatter class is a user-defined Java class for customizing how values are displayed so that you can format data beyond default settings, such as applying custom date formats, currency symbols, or localized labels. </p></td></tr><tr><td>Caption Column  </td><td><p>The name of the column that holds the caption for members. </p><div data-gb-custom-block data-tag="hint" data-style="info" class="hint hint-info"><p><strong>Note:</strong> Instead of selecting a specific column, you can define a <code>CaptionExpression</code> in the <code>Level</code> element of a SQL expression to use as the caption. For details, see <a href="https://open-2v.gitbook.com/~space/dbSFXbJFiObHB299lSSa/~/changes/t2kt8ssMcRL9ysypKbfv/~gitbook/pdf?back=false&#x26;only=yes&#x26;page=BN8aCJ7V1POiHJqh8Hrr#pdf-page-EQsu44rlUDmwreD5UqpH">Advanced mode</a>.</p></div></td></tr><tr><td>Parent Column  </td><td><p>The name of the column in the source table that references the parent member in a parent-child hierarchy. </p><div data-gb-custom-block data-tag="hint" data-style="info" class="hint hint-info"><p><strong>Note:</strong> Instead of selecting a specific column, you can define a <code>ParentExpression</code> in the <code>Level</code> element of a SQL expression to use as the parent. For details, see <a href="https://open-2v.gitbook.com/~space/dbSFXbJFiObHB299lSSa/~/changes/t2kt8ssMcRL9ysypKbfv/~gitbook/pdf?back=false&#x26;only=yes&#x26;page=BN8aCJ7V1POiHJqh8Hrr#pdf-page-EQsu44rlUDmwreD5UqpH">Advanced mode</a>.</p></div></td></tr></tbody></table>
    * Expand the **Describe Level** section and edit one or more of the following options:&#x20;

      <table><thead><tr><th width="131.777587890625">Option </th><th>Description </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Caption </td><td>String of text that is displayed instead of the level’s name. You can use captions to provide a user-friendly label for reports or for localization so that the level's name appears in the local language. </td></tr><tr><td>Description </td><td>Description of the level. </td></tr></tbody></table>
13. Click **Apply**. Edits to the dimension are applied.&#x20;
14. In the **Semantic Model Editor**, click **Save** to save changes to the model.&#x20;
