# Source: https://docs.pentaho.com/install/9.3-install/pentaho-installation-overview-cp/docker-container-deployment-of-pentaho-installation-cp/using-your-docker-containers-with-clusters-docker-deployment/shared-volumes-docker-deployment/override-files-volume-docker-deployment.md

# Override Files volume

When you use the `DockMaker` command, an override volume is generated. This volume contains all the changes that must be made to the basic artifact files to create the configuration desired. The volume binds the `generatedFiles/fileOverride` directory on the host with the `/docker-entrypoint-init` directory on the container. When you start the container, the files present in this directory overwrites the files and directories in the `/opt/pentaho/data-integration` or `/opt/pentaho/pentaho-server` directory, depending on which one is in use.

If you need any additional files, drivers, or other items placed in the application’s directory, just add them with the proper path to the `fileOverride` directory.

**Note:** Any changes you make in this volume will be lost if the command tool is executed again, which is why the command line has the option prepare the container without building it. In many cases, you may need to make more changes to the templates generated by the `DockMaker` command. If you want to back up the files generated or manually change them, rename the `generatedFiles` directory or copy the directory to another location. If you take this action, you may need adjust some paths associate with parameters to the `DockMaker` command.
