<!-- Source: https://namespace.so/docs/reference/cli/expose -->

# nsc expose container

Expose an exported port on a running container.

`expose container` opens a public ingress to an exported port on a running container. The
provided container needs to be up and running. For example, it can be started in
advance using `docker run` within an ephemeral instance. The exposed endpoint is
encrypted with TLS and secured with Namespace authentication, so whoever has
access to the workspace where the ephemeral environment was created in, will
also have access to the endpoint.

**Note**: Only HTTP services can currently be exposed.

## Usage

```
nsc expose container <instance-id> --container <name> [--container_port <port[,port]>] [--name <ingress-name>] [--source <docker|containerd>] [--output <plain|json>]
```

### Example

In the example below we first create an ephemeral instance, then SSH into the
instance, start the nginx container with `docker run` and then expose it
using `nsc expose container`.

Create an ephemeral instance:

```
$ nsc create
Created instance "oiepencpc41im"
 deadline: 2023-04-25T09:46:03Z
```

SSH into the created instance:

```
$ nsc ssh oiepencpc41im
```

and start nginx container within the created instance:

```
oiepencpc41im:~# docker run --name nginx-foobar -p 80:80 -d nginx
```

Then, expose port 80 using the `nsc expose container` command:

```
$ nsc expose container oiepencpc41im --container nginx-foobar --container_port 80
Exported port 80 from nginx-foobar (20e97bc453c936a9665dd6ce75e0168c92a689cc92214303a87fc19a):
  https://nginx-foobar-j239700-oiepencpc41im.fra1.namespaced.app
```

Now you can visit the provided URL **https://nginx-foobar-j239700-oiepencpc41im.fra1.namespaced.app**
in your browser and use your Namespace credentials for authentication.

## Options

### --container <name>

To specify a name of a container to expose. This option is required.

### --container\_port <port[,port]>

Exports the specified ports (separated by commas) as public ingresses. If the
option is not provided, all the exported ports would be exposed.

### --name <name>

Set the name of the exposed ingress. Setting a name is only permitted when exposing a single port.
By default, ingress names will be generated by Namespace.

### --source <source>

To specify the container runtime which was used to run the container. Supported
options are `docker` and `containerd`. By default `docker` is used to lookup
running containers.

### -o <type>

Specifies the output format. Supported options are `json` and
`plain`. By default, plain output format is used.

### --all

Export one ingress for each exported port of each running container.

### --wildcard

If set, generate a wildcard ingress for the exposed container port.
Can only be used when exposing a single port.

Last updated July 4, 2025
