# Source: https://docs.nimbleway.io/nimble-sdk/web-api/nimble-web-api-functions/general-params.md

# General Params

* Params marked in **red** are currently for internal use only, and not part of our public documentation.

<table><thead><tr><th width="175">Parameter</th><th width="209">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>url</code></td><td>Required</td><td>URL | The page or resource to be fetched. Note: when using a URL with a query string, encode the URL and place it at the end of the query string.</td></tr><tr><td><code>method</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>GET</code>)</td><td>String | The method for requesting a URL from the target server.</td></tr><tr><td><code>parse</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>false</code>)</td><td>Boolean: <code>true</code> | <code>false</code> - True - the page's content will be parsed and returned in a JSON format. False - Response will include page headers and raw data (without parsing). </td></tr><tr><td><code>render</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>false</code>)</td><td>Boolean: <code>true</code> | <code>false</code> - enables or disables Javascript rendering on the target page</td></tr><tr><td><code>driver</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>vx6</code>)</td><td>Enum: <code>vx6</code> | <code>vx8</code> | <code>vx8-pro</code> | <code>vx10</code> | <code>vx10-pro</code>- Manually select the <a href="browserless-drivers">browserless driver</a> </td></tr><tr><td><code>device</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>desktop</code>)</td><td>Enum: <code>desktop</code> | <code>mobile</code><br>Manually select the browser device type</td></tr><tr><td><code>format</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>JSON</code>)</td><td>Enum: <code>JSON</code> | <code>HTML</code> | <code>JSON-LINES</code> | <code>RAW</code> | <code>MARKDOWN</code> - The data response format. HTML - in case of error, returns JSON with error message.</td></tr><tr><td><code>markdown</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>false</code>)</td><td>Boolean | Set to <code>true</code> to include markdown field in standard JSON response alongside HTML and parsed data</td></tr><tr><td><code>country</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>all</code>)</td><td>String | Country used to access the target URL, use ISO Alpha-2 Country Codes i.e. US, DE, GB</td></tr><tr><td><code>state</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>null</code>)</td><td>String | State used to access the target URL, use ISO Alpha-2 Country Codes i.e. NY, AZ, CA</td></tr><tr><td><code>city</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>null</code>)</td><td>String | City used to access the target URL i.e. paris, london</td></tr><tr><td><code>locale</code></td><td><br>Optional (default = <code>auto</code>)</td><td>String | LCID standard locale used for the URL request. Alternatively, user can use <code>auto</code> for automatic locale based on geo-location.</td></tr><tr><td><code>is_xhr</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>false</code>)</td><td>Boolean | Instructs the Web API that the target page is an XHR request instead of a standard webpage. Only available when <code>render</code> is set to <code>false</code> (default)</td></tr><tr><td><code>no_html</code></td><td>Optiona (default = <code>false</code>)</td><td>Bool | If set to <code>true</code>, the API will exclude HTML content from the response.</td></tr><tr><td><code>consent_header</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>false</code>)</td><td>Bool | if set to <code>true</code>, nimble will add a scraping consent header letting the target domain know they are being scraped by Nimble</td></tr><tr><td><code>user_context</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>null</code>)</td><td>String | 256 characters long, representing a context text provided by the user, mainly used for async/batch requests.</td></tr><tr><td><code>expected_status_codes</code></td><td>Optional (default = <code>[200]</code>)</td><td>List of integers | Defines valid HTTP status codes for the request. Responses matching any listed code are treated as successful requests.</td></tr></tbody></table>
