# Source: https://docs.nimbleway.io/nimble-sdk/web-api/nimble-web-api-functions/network-capture/operation-reference.md

# Source: https://docs.nimbleway.io/nimble-sdk/web-api/nimble-web-api-functions/page-interaction/operation-reference.md

# Operation Reference

Now that we've covered the basics of how to use **Page Interactions**, the below table provided an in-depth reference to all available parameters and their values, under `render_flow` object.

<table><thead><tr><th width="235">Parameter</th><th width="205">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>wait</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Object | describing the <strong>wait</strong> function</td></tr><tr><td>wait.<strong>delay</strong></td><td>Required when <strong>wait</strong> is being used</td><td>Integer | The required delay to be added in ms </td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>wait_for</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Object | describing the <strong>wait_for</strong>function</td></tr><tr><td>wait_for.<strong>selectors</strong></td><td>Required when <strong>wait_for</strong> is being used</td><td>String | Wait until the listed selector(s) have loaded.</td></tr><tr><td>wait_for.<strong>timeout</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>nteger | Controls the time to allow until a selector is loaded in ms.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>wait_and_click</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Object | describing the <strong>wait_and_click</strong> function</td></tr><tr><td>wait_and_click.<strong>selector</strong></td><td>Required when <strong>wait_and_click</strong> is being used</td><td>String | The selector for the desired element to be clicked on</td></tr><tr><td>wait_and_click.<strong>timeout</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Integer | Controls the time to allow the click action run in ms</td></tr><tr><td>wait_and_click.<strong>delay</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Integer | The required delay to be added in ms </td></tr><tr><td>wait_and_click.<strong>scroll</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Bool | When <code>true</code>, scroll the selected element into the visible area if it is not already visible.</td></tr><tr><td>wait_and_click.<strong>visible</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Bool | when true, the request will wait for the element to be present in the DOM and to be visible, i.e. to not have display: none or visibility: hidden CSS properties.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>wait_and_type</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Object | describing the wait_and_type function</td></tr><tr><td>wait_and_type.<strong>selector</strong></td><td>Required when <strong>wait_and_type</strong> is being used</td><td>String | The selector for the desired element to be typed on</td></tr><tr><td>wait_and_type.<strong>value</strong></td><td>Required when <strong>wait_and_type</strong> is being used</td><td>String | the text input to be typed on desured elemnt</td></tr><tr><td>wait_and_type.<strong>timeout</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Integer | Controls the time to allow the type action run in ms</td></tr><tr><td>wait_and_type.<strong>delay</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Integer | The required delay to be added in ms </td></tr><tr><td>wait_and_type.<strong>click_on_element</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Bool | When <code>true</code>, the element would be clicked before typing</td></tr><tr><td>wait_and_type.<strong>visible</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Bool | when true, the request will wait for the element to be present in the DOM and to be visible, i.e. to not have display: none or visibility: hidden CSS properties.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>scroll</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Object | describing the <strong>scroll</strong> function</td></tr><tr><td>scroll.<strong>x</strong></td><td>Required when <strong>scroll</strong> is being used</td><td>Integer | The x-axis position to scroll to</td></tr><tr><td>scroll.<strong>y</strong></td><td>Required when <strong>scroll</strong> is being used</td><td>Integer | The y-axis position to scroll to</td></tr><tr><td>scroll.<strong>timeout</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Integer | Controls the time to allow the scroll action run in ms</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>scroll_to</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Object | describing the <strong>scroll_to</strong> function</td></tr><tr><td>scroll_to.<strong>selector</strong></td><td>Required when <strong>scroll_to</strong> is being used</td><td>String | The selector for the desired element to scroll to</td></tr><tr><td>scroll_to.<strong>visible</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Bool | when true, the request will wait for the element to be present in the DOM and to be visible, i.e. to not have display: none or visibility: hidden CSS properties.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>infinite_scroll</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Object | describing the <strong>infinite_scroll</strong> function</td></tr><tr><td>infinite_scroll.<strong>duration</strong></td><td>Required when <strong>infinite_scroll</strong> is being used</td><td>Integer | A time interval in milliseconds during which scrolling should be continuously attempted.</td></tr><tr><td>infinite_scroll.<strong>loading_selector</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>String | An identifier of the HTML element that displays the loading/spinner indicator. This helps identify when loading starts and ends.</td></tr><tr><td>infinite_scroll.<strong>delay_after_scroll</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Integer | The time delay, in ms, between scrolls.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>screenshots</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Object | describing the <strong>screenshot</strong> function</td></tr><tr><td>screenshots.<strong>full_page</strong></td><td>Optional<br>Default = <code>false</code></td><td>Bool | Capture a screenshot of the entire page or just the viewable area.</td></tr><tr><td>screenshots.<strong>format</strong></td><td>Optional<br>Default = <code>png</code></td><td>Enum | The Base64 format of the screenshot image. Supported formats: <code>png</code>, <code>jpeg</code>, <code>webp</code></td></tr><tr><td>screenshots.<strong>timeout</strong></td><td>Optional<br>Default = <code>30000</code></td><td>Integer | Controls the time to allow screenshots scrolling before terminating screenshot processing in ms.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>get_cookies</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Object | describing the <strong>get_cookies</strong> function</td></tr><tr><td>get_cookies.<strong>timeout</strong></td><td>Optional<br>Default = <code>1000</code></td><td>Integer | Controls how long to wait for new cookies before storing all collected cookie data in ms.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>http_request</strong></td><td>Required when <strong>http_request</strong> is being used</td><td>Object | describing the <strong>http_request</strong> function</td></tr><tr><td>http_request.<strong>url</strong></td><td>Optional<br>Default = <code>1000</code></td><td>URL | The target URL for the HTTP request</td></tr><tr><td>http_request.<strong>method</strong></td><td>Optional (Default = <code>GET</code>)</td><td>Enum | The HTTP request method  -<code>GET</code>, <code>POST</code></td></tr><tr><td>http_request.<strong>headers</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Object | Additional headers required for the request in JSON format </td></tr><tr><td>http_request.<strong>timeout</strong></td><td>Optional</td><td>Integer | Controls the timeout if the internal HTTP request being performed in ms</td></tr></tbody></table>
