# Source: https://liveblocks.io/docs/platform/upgrading/0.19

---
meta:
  title: "Upgrading to 0.19"
  parentTitle: "Upgrading"
  description: "Guide to upgrade to Liveblocks version 0.19"
---

In the Liveblocks 0.19 release, we’re adding support for Zustand v4 to
`@liveblocks/zustand`. Zustand v4 brings greatly improved TypeScript types to
its APIs, enabling us to enhance the quality of our types, bringing it in line
with our React package.

Let’s take a look!

## Upgrading steps by package

### @liveblocks/react [#react]

To update `@liveblocks/react` to 0.19, run the following command using your
preferred package manager:

```bash
npm install @liveblocks/client@0.19 @liveblocks/react@0.19
```

#### useOther now requires a selector argument [@hidden]

`useOther` now requires a
[selector](/docs/api-reference/liveblocks-react#selectors-receive-immutable-data)
function argument. You will need to replace instances of `useOther` that do not
use a selector in your codebase.

#### Previously ❌ [@hidden]

```tsx
const other = useOther(id); // 👈 does not include a selector
```

#### Now ✅ [@hidden]

```tsx
const other = useOther(id, (other) => other); // 👈 requires a selector
```

#### Include unstable_batchedUpdates if you use React 17 [@hidden]

We’ve added support to prevent the stale props/zombie child scenario. To avoid
this issue, we enforce passing the `unstable_batchedUpdates` prop to
`RoomProvider`.

<Banner title="You may not need this">

This section only applies if you are using React 17 or lower. You do not need to
do anything if you are using React 18 or higher.

</Banner>

```tsx highlight="2,8"
// ⚠️ Only if you’re using React 17 or lower
import { unstable_batchedUpdates } from "react-dom"; // 👈
<RoomProvider
  id="my-room"
  initialPresence={...}
  initialStorage={...}
  unstable_batchedUpdates={unstable_batchedUpdates}
>
  <App />
</RoomProvider>
```

For additional context, see the
[troubleshooting guide](/docs/platform/troubleshooting#stale-props-zombie-child)

### @liveblocks/redux [#redux]

To update `@liveblocks/redux` to 0.19, run the following command using your
preferred package manager:

```bash
npm install @liveblocks/client@0.19 @liveblocks/redux@0.19
```

#### Update use of default export liveblocksEnhancer [@hidden]

The main export has been renamed, so you will need to update your imports and
use of the enhancer:

#### Previously ❌ [@hidden]

```ts
import { enhancer } from "@liveblocks/redux";
```

#### Now ✅ [@hidden]

```ts
import { liveblocksEnhancer } from "@liveblocks/redux";
```

#### Remove the second argument to state.liveblocks.enterRoom [@hidden]

When calling `state.liveblocks.enterRoom()`, you should not pass an explicit
initial state. It will use the state in your Redux store, for consistency and
ease of use. To migrate, make the following code changes:

#### Previously ❌ [@hidden]

```ts
useEffect(() => {
  enterRoom("room-id", {
    todos: [], // 👈 remove explicit initial state
  });
});
```

#### Now ✅ [@hidden]

```ts
useEffect(() => {
  enterRoom("room-id");
});
```

### @liveblocks/zustand [#zustand]

In 0.19 we added support for Zustand v4 (specifically v4.1.3 or higher) and will
no longer support Zustand v4.1.2 or lower. This is because Zustand v4.1.3 brings
greatly improved TypeScript types to its APIs, and consequently, we can improve
our internal types. To migrate, make the following code changes:

To update `@liveblocks/zustand` to 0.19, run the following command using your
preferred package manager:

```bash
npm install @liveblocks/client@0.19 @liveblocks/zustand@0.19
```

- Change these imports, if applicable, and rename accordingly:

#### Previously ❌ [@hidden]

```ts
import { middleware } from "@liveblocks/zustand";
import type { LiveblocksState } from "@liveblocks/zustand";
```

#### Now ✅ [@hidden]

```ts
import { liveblocks } from "@liveblocks/zustand";
import type { WithLiveblocks } from "@liveblocks/zustand";
```

- Update to the Zustand v4 recommended pattern:

#### Previously ❌ [@hidden]

```ts
create(liveblocks<MyState, ...>(...))
```

#### Now ✅ [@hidden]

```ts
create<WithLiveblocks<MyState, ...>>()(liveblocks(...))
```

To be clear:

1. First, move the type annotation away from the `liveblocks` middleware call,
   and onto the `create` call.
2. Next, wrap your `MyState` type in a `WithLiveblocks<...>` wrapper. This will
   make sure the injected `liveblocks` property on your Zustand state will be
   correctly typed.
3. Finally, make sure to add the extra call `()` wrapper, needed by Zustand v4
   now:
   ```ts
   create<WithLiveblocks<MyState, ...>>()(liveblocks(...))
   //                                  ^^ Not a typo
   ```

- Remove the second argument to `state.liveblocks.enterRoom()`: it no longer
  takes an explicit initial state. Instead, it’s automatically be populated from
  your Zustand state.

## Improvements [#improvements]

This release brings several changes to `@liveblocks/react`, which improve
rendering performance and stability. Additionally, we have refactored our
internal packages to increase code sharing. You can review the
[release notes](https://github.com/liveblocks/liveblocks/releases) for more
details.

### @liveblocks/react [#react-improvements]

#### New shouldInitiallyConnect prop [@hidden]

We added a new property `shouldInitiallyConnect` to `RoomProvider`, which lets
you control whether or not the room connects to Liveblock servers. By default,
it will check the `typeof window` to determine if it should connect. When using
SSR, you can set it to `false` to prevent the room from connecting to Liveblocks
servers.

```tsx highlight="4"
<RoomProvider
  id="room"
  initialPresence={{}}
  shouldInitiallyConnect={false} // 👈 control initial connection to Liveblocks
>
  <App />
</RoomProvider>
```

#### Addition of @liveblocks-core package [@hidden]

We restructured our internal packages to increase code sharing. You may notice a
new dependency in your dependency tree: `@liveblocks/core`. It contains private
APIs that aren’t intended for direct consumption.

### @liveblocks/client [#client-improvements]

#### New shouldInitiallyConnect option [@hidden]

Similar to the [`shouldInitiallyConnect`](#react-shouldInitiallyConnect) prop in
`@liveblocks/react`, we added a `shouldInitiallyConnect` option to
`client.enter`. The default value is `true`. You may want to set it to `false`
when using SSR, or if you would prefer to establish the WebSocket connection
later.

```tsx
client.enter("room", {
  initialPresence: {},
  shouldInitiallyConnect: false, // 👈 for SSR using the @liveblocks/client package
});
```

### @liveblocks/\* [#all]

All packages now provide an `isReadOnly` flag on user instances. It is available
by calling `getSelf()` and `getOthers`. `isReadOnly` is true when storage is
read-only, as well as when a user has `read` permission to the `room` and
`write` permission to `presence`.

```ts highlight="3,5"
const me = room.getSelf();

me.isReadOnly; // boolean

const others = room.getOthers();
for (const other of others) {
  other.isReadOnly; // boolean
}
```

You can learn more about room permissions under
[authentication](/docs/authentication).

That’s it!

If you run into issues with these new patterns and you need help, please let us
know [by email](mailto:support@liveblocks.io) or by joining our
[Discord community](/discord)! We’re here to help!

---

For an overview of all available documentation, see [/llms.txt](/llms.txt).
