# Source: https://northflank.com/docs/v1/application/migrate-from-heroku.md

# Migrate from Heroku

Northflank supports all your applications you've been deploying to Heroku, and migrating is straightforward and easy.

You can also manage your account and projects through the Northflank [API, CLI, and JavaScript client](#use-the-northflank-api), helping you develop your applications locally using forwarding and command execute, and programmatically manage your entire devops workflow.

Our [pricing](https://northflank.com/pricing) is straightforward and transparent, and you only pay for the resources you use.

## Get started on Northflank

1. [Create an account](https://app.northflank.com/signup)

2. If you're working with others, [create a team](collaborate/create-a-team) and invite your colleagues

3. [Link an account](getting-started/link-your-git-account) from a supported Git service to Northflank to build from your repositories

## Import a Heroku application with a single dyno to Northflank

To import a Heroku application with a single dyno formation (an application that contains dynos of only one process type, e.g. web or worker dynos), you can create a combined service.

All aspects of a combined service can be configured after creation - except the name.

1. Choose service from the create new menu in the top right corner of the dashboard

2. Basic information: select combined service and enter a name

3. Repository: select the Git repository from the drop-down list and choose the branch you want to build from

4. Build options: choose [buildpack](build/build-code-from-a-git-repository#build-with-buildpacks) to automatically build your application. Northflank uses the Heroku 20 stack by default. You can select another buildpack stack, or add custom buildpacks, in advanced build settings.

5. Environment variables (optional): you can set [build arguments](build/build-code-from-a-git-repository#specify-build-arguments) and [runtime variables](secure/inject-secrets#runtime-variables), or add [secret files](secure/upload-secret-files) in advanced. You can add your connection details for hosted databases or API keys for other services here to make them available within your application.

6. Networking (optional): Northflank will add a public port for buildpacks, you can redefine this port and add more if required. You can also create a service with no public ports that means it can only be accessed by other resources within your project.

7. Resources: choose a plan with more CPU and memory available to your builds and instances, and increase the number of instances to deploy, if required

8. Advanced (optional): you can configure health checks and manage other advanced features

### Learn more about combined services

A combined service is a self-contained pipeline that builds and deploys commits to a branch in a Git repository.

Combined services are highly configurable: you can manage how they build your application, CI/CD, networking and domains, health checks, and more.

You can also scale your combined services to meet your needs, increasing the CPU power and memory available to each running instance and increasing the overall number of running instances.

You can learn more about [managing combined services](getting-started/build-and-deploy-your-code#create-a-combined-service) in our getting started guide, or check the documentation for specific tasks you want to achieve.

## Networking and DNS on Northflank

Northflank allows flexible and secure private and public networking for services, jobs, databases and other addons. You can create secure, private connections within your project, or expose ports publicly to access your applications online.

You can expose multiple ports on every deployment, public and private, and HTTP, HTTP/2, Websockets, gRPC, TCP and UDP are all supported networking protocols.

Northflank uses scalable and highly performant load balancers to securely distribute external traffic to your applications.

Networking settings are accessed on the ports & DNS page on deployment and combined services, and on the settings page in the network section for databases and other addons.

### Domains

Public ports can use either a free `code.run` domain, generated by Northflank, or your own custom domains. All domains are secured with a free, auto-generated TLS certificate.

You can add your own domains in your account dashboard, then link them to specific ports in your services. You can quickly and easily change what port or service they are linked with, without needing to re-verify or restart your services.

1. [Add a domain](domains/add-a-domain-to-your-account).

2. [Add a subdomain](domains/add-a-domain-to-your-account#add-a-subdomain).

3. [Link a domain to a port](domains/link-a-domain-to-a-port).

### Learn more about networking on Northflank, or follow a step-by-step guide to add and link a domain to a port

- [Networking on Northflank: Configure ports and security for your deployments.](/v1/application/network/networking-on-northflank)
- [Add and verify domain: Add your domain name to your Northflank account and link it to a public port.](/v1/application/getting-started/add-a-and-verify-domain)

## Import your data to Northflank

To get started on Northflank you can use your existing databases and other service integrations by including their API keys, connection strings, or other secrets as environment variables. Read more about [secret management](secure/inject-secrets).

Northflank offers [several managed databases](databases-and-persistence/deploy-a-database), including [PostgreSQL](databases-and-persistence/deploy-databases-on-northflank/deploy-postgresql-on-northflank), [Redis](databases-and-persistence/deploy-databases-on-northflank/deploy-redis-on-northflank), [MongoDB](databases-and-persistence/deploy-databases-on-northflank/deploy-mongodb-on-northflank), [MySQL](databases-and-persistence/deploy-databases-on-northflank/deploy-mysql-on-northflank), and [MinIO](databases-and-persistence/deploy-databases-on-northflank/deploy-minio-on-northflank), that can be deployed with a click.

Select addon from the create new and choose a database to deploy.

After deploying a database you can import your data from the [backups page](databases-and-persistence/backup-restore-and-import-data) by uploading a text dump or specifying the connection string of the database you wish to import from. You have several options to automatically or manually manage [runtime migrations](release/handle-runtime-migrations) on Northflank.

You can also create [persistent volumes](databases-and-persistence/add-a-volume) to attach to your deployments, for any use cases not covered by our managed addons.

### Find guides to deploy and use databases and volumes on Northflank

- [Deploy a database: Create a database to use with your Northflank deployments.](/v1/application/databases-and-persistence/deploy-a-database)
- [Use a database with your applications: Securely access your database in your project's applications and services.](/v1/application/databases-and-persistence/connect-database-secrets-to-workloads)
- [Backup, restore, and import your data: Create and import backups of your database, or restore from an existing backup.](/v1/application/databases-and-persistence/backup-restore-and-import-data)
- [Run migrations: Run database migrations and update your deployments simultaneously when you update your schema.](/v1/application/release/run-migrations)

## Schedule jobs on Northflank

If you're using Heroku scheduler you can create [cron jobs](run/run-an-image-once-or-on-a-schedule) on Northflank that will run your applications at specific times, before shutting down.

You can deploy from a repository, which allows you to automatically build any new commits to the tracked branch and so always run the latest version of your job, or deploy an image from a Northflank build service or an external container registry.

You can run the job on a cron schedule, or if a new image is available.

You can create and configure a new job from the create new menu.

### Learn more about jobs on Northflank

- [Run an image once or on a schedule: Run an image manually or on a cron schedule.](/v1/application/run/run-an-image-once-or-on-a-schedule)

## Use the Northflank API, CLI, or JavaScript client

You can create and manage projects, builds, and deployments programmatically using [the API](https://northflank.com/docs/api/use-the-api), interact with Northflank using [the CLI](https://northflank.com/docs/api/use-the-cli), and integrate the [JavaScript client](https://northflank.com/docs/api/use-the-javascript-client) into your applications to create solutions for any use-case you can imagine.

You can use the CLI to [forward resources](https://northflank.com/docs/api/forwarding) for local development, and to [execute commands](https://northflank.com/docs/api/execute-command) in your running containers.

To get started, create an [API token](secure/grant-api-access#generate-an-api-token), or create an [API role](secure/grant-api-access) for your team to use if you don't have one available.

### Learn more about using Northflank programmatically

- [Forward deployments and databases: Forward deployments and databases to your local machine for development.](/v1/api/forwarding)
- [Execute commands in your workloads: Access the shell for your running workloads or send commands to execute using the UI, CLI, API, or JavaScript client.](/v1/api/execute-command)
- [Grant API access: Create API roles to grant access to the Northflank API, with granular permissions.](/v1/application/secure/grant-api-access)
- [Generate API tokens: Generate an API token to access your team and project.](/v1/application/secure/grant-api-access#generate-an-api-token)
- [Use the Northflank API: Learn how to create and manage projects on Northflank programmatically using the REST API.](/v1/api/use-the-api)
- [Use the Northflank CLI: Learn how to create and manage projects on Northflank using the command line client.](/v1/api/use-the-cli)
- [Use the Northflank JavaScript client: Learn how to create and manage projects on Northflank programmatically using the JavaScript client.](/v1/api/use-the-javascript-client)

## Import a Heroku application with multiple dynos to Northflank

To import a Heroku application with multiple dyno formations (an application that contains dynos with more than one process type, e.g. web and workers dynos), you are recommended to create a build service, multiple deployment services, and a secret group (if required).

#### Build service

You can create a build service linked to the Git repository for your application, and build commits to specific branches and pull request branches by adding [build rules](build/build-code-from-a-git-repository#build-specific-branches-or-pull-requests).

All aspects of a build service can be configured after creation - except the name.

1. Choose service from the create new menu in the top right corner of the dashboard

2. Basic information: select build service and enter a name

3. Repository: select the Git repository from the drop-down list and choose the branch you want to build from. You can also set [build rules](build/build-code-from-a-git-repository#build-specific-branches-or-pull-requests) to build specific branches or pull request branches.

4. Build options: choose [buildpack](build/build-code-from-a-git-repository#build-with-buildpacks) to automatically build your application. Northflank uses the Heroku 20 stack by default. You can select another buildpack stack, or add custom buildpacks, in advanced build settings. You can also set the [build context](build/build-code-from-a-git-repository#build-a-specific-repository-directory), if it's not the root directory.

5. Environment variables (optional): you can set [build arguments](build/build-code-from-a-git-repository#specify-build-arguments) or add [secret files](secure/upload-secret-files) in advanced

6. Resources: choose a plan with more CPU and memory available to your builds, if required

[Learn more about building on Northflank](build/build-code-from-a-git-repository).

#### Deployment services

The deployment services will run containers from the images provided by your build service. You can create separate deployment services for each type of dyno in your Heroku application. For example, you would create one deployment service for your web dynos, and one deployment service for your worker dynos. These can then be configured and scaled separately.

For web dynos you can add the required HTTP ports and publicly expose them to the internet. For worker dynos you can add any required HTTP, TCP, or UDP ports and they will only be accessible to resources within your project.

You can either add variables required at runtime directly in the deployment services on the environment page, or create a [secret group](secure/manage-secret-groups) that can be inherited by multiple services.

1. Choose service from the create new menu in the top right corner of the dashboard

2. Basic information: select deployment service and enter a name

3. Deployment: select Northflank and link your build service, selecting a branch to deploy builds from

4. Environment variables (optional): you can set [runtime variables](secure/inject-secrets#runtime-variables) or add [secret files](secure/upload-secret-files) in advanced

5. Networking (optional): add public ports to make the service accessible on the internet, or private ports for it to only be accessed by other resources within your project

6. Resources: choose a plan with more CPU and memory available to your instances and increase the number of instances to deploy, if required

7. Advanced (optional): you can configure health checks and manage other advanced features

[Learn more about deploying on Northflank](run/run-containers-and-micro-services).

#### Secret group

Rather than adding secrets to each of your services individually, you can create secret groups that can be inherited by multiple services. On Northflank environment variables for build arguments and runtime variables are normally separate, however your can create a secret group containing both. Variables in secret groups are inherited by all your services by default, but you can restrict them to specific services if required.

1. Choose secret group from the create new menu in the top right corner of the dashboard

2. Basic information: enter a name and select the type of secrets the group will contain: runtime variables, build arguments, or both

3. Secrets: enter your secret keys and values using the key-value table edit view, as JSON, or upload or enter in ENV format. You can also add secret files in advanced.

4. Linked addons: you can link addons to your secret group to make them easily accessible in your services and jobs

5. Advanced: by default secret groups will be inherited by all your services and jobs in the project. You can choose to apply the secret group to specific services and jobs only.

[Learn more about secrets on Northflank](secure/security-on-northflank).

## Import a Heroku pipeline to Northflank

To import your pipeline to Northflank manually you can create a build service for each repository you wish to build from, and set [rules](build/build-code-from-a-git-repository#build-specific-branches-or-pull-requests) to build specific branches or pull requests.

You can then create deployment services, one for each type of dyno per application, to populate a pipeline.

You can add secrets as build arguments directly to build services, and runtime variables directly to deployment services, or create secret groups to contain environment variables that can be inherited by multiple services.

You can follow the steps in [import a Heroku application with multiple dynos to Northflank](#import-a-heroku-application-with-multiple-dynos-to-northflank) to create build services, deployment services, and secret groups.

### Pipelines on Northflank

You can add your Northflank resources to a pipeline, and control them using release flows. Release flows allow you to deploy builds, promote images from one stage to another, and to perform many other tasks such as starting a build, backing up a database, and running a job. The guide below will explain the basics of creating a pipeline and deploying and promoting built images.

For your first pipeline stage (`development`) you will need to deploy an image from a build service. Your subsequent stages, `staging` and `production`, can promote images from the previous stage, or deploy images from a build service.

#### Create a pipeline

1. Choose pipeline from the create new drop-down menu in the top right corner of the dashboard

2. Enter a name

3. Click create pipeline

#### Add resources to a pipeline

1. Click  add items to [stage], for each stage you want to use

2. Select each resource to add to the stage (deployment services, jobs, and addons) and click add items

#### Create a release flow for your development stage

1. Click  add release flow in the header for the development stage

2. Select  get started with visual editor

3. Click and drag a deploy build node into the workflow. Click on it to configure the node.

4. Select the `build service` linked to the repository you want to use, select the `build` by selecting the branch or PR you want to deploy from, and either `latest` or a specific build. Select your deployment service as the `target` and save node.

5. Exit the release flow editor by clicking the  close button in the top-right corner

Note: if CI is not enabled on your build service, you can add a [build node](getting-started/set-up-a-pipeline#add-a-release-flow) before the deploy build node to start a new build to deploy.

#### Create release flows for your staging and production stages

1. Click  add release flow in the header for the staging or production stage

2. Select  get started with visual editor

3. Click and drag a promote build node and drop it into the workflow. Click on it to configure the node.

4. Select the deployment in the previous stage as the `origin`, the service or job you want to promote as the `target`, and save node.

5. Exit the release flow editor by clicking the  close button in the top-right corner

You can now deploy and promote built images on Northflank by running the release flows for your pipeline stages.

### Learn more about pipelines, release flows, and CI/CD on Northflank

- [Set up a pipeline and release flow: Manage your deployments and release your updates in an intuitive pipeline with release flows.](/v1/application/release/create-a-pipeline-and-release-flow)
- [Manage CI/CD: Configure continuous integration and continuous delivery on your Northflank services.](/v1/application/release/manage-ci-cd)

## Next steps

- [Add public ports: Configure ports to expose your services on the internet.](/v1/application/network/configure-ports#public-ports)
- [Link a domain to a port: How to link and unlink domains and subdomains with specific ports on your deployments.](/v1/application/domains/link-a-domain-to-a-port)
- [Run an image once or on a schedule: Run an image manually or on a cron schedule.](/v1/application/run/run-an-image-once-or-on-a-schedule)
- [Configure health checks: Monitor the uptime and success of your deployed services and builds to ensure your code runs correctly and is always available.](/v1/application/observe/configure-health-checks)
- [Set up a pipeline and release flow: Manage your deployments and release your updates in an intuitive pipeline with release flows.](/v1/application/release/create-a-pipeline-and-release-flow)
- [Manage CI/CD: Configure continuous integration and continuous delivery on your Northflank services.](/v1/application/release/manage-ci-cd)
- [Deploy a database: Create a database to use with your Northflank deployments.](/v1/application/databases-and-persistence/deploy-a-database)
- [Use the Northflank API: Learn how to create and manage projects on Northflank programmatically using the REST API.](/v1/api/use-the-api)
- [Use the Northflank CLI: Learn how to create and manage projects on Northflank using the command line client.](/v1/api/use-the-cli)
- [Use the Northflank JavaScript client: Learn how to create and manage projects on Northflank programmatically using the JavaScript client.](/v1/api/use-the-javascript-client)
