# Source: https://docs.bito.ai/ai-code-reviews-in-git/install-run-as-a-self-hosted-service/agent-configuration-bito-cra.properties-file.md

# Agent Configuration: bito-cra.properties File

{% hint style="info" %}
**Note:** This file is only available for people who are using the [**self-hosted**](https://docs.bito.ai/ai-code-reviews-in-git/install-run-as-a-self-hosted-service) version of AI Code Review Agent.
{% endhint %}

The **bito-cra.properties** file offers a comprehensive range of options for configuring the [**AI Code Review Agent**](https://docs.bito.ai/ai-code-reviews-in-git/overview), enhancing its flexibility and adaptability to various workflow requirements.

## bito-cra.properties Available Options

<table><thead><tr><th width="232" align="center">Property Name</th><th>Supported Values</th><th width="141">Is Mandatory?</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="center"><strong>mode</strong></td><td><ul><li>cli</li><li>server</li></ul></td><td>Yes</td><td>Whether to run the Docker container in CLI mode for a one-time code review or as a webhooks service to continuously monitor for code review requests.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>pr_url</strong></td><td>Pull request URL in GitLab, GitHub and Bitbucket</td><td>Yes, if the mode is CLI.</td><td><p>The pull request provides files with changes and the actual code modifications.<br><br>When the <code>mode</code> is set to <code>server</code>, the <code>pr_url</code> is received either through a webhook call or via a REST API call.</p><p> </p><p>This release only supports webhook calls; other REST API calls are not yet supported.</p></td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>code_feedback</strong></td><td><ul><li>True</li><li>False</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td>Setting it to <code>True</code> activates general code review comments to identify functional issues. If set to <code>False</code>, general code review will not be conducted.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>bito_cli.bito.access_key</strong></td><td><p>A valid Bito Access Key generated through Bito's web UI.</p><p> </p><p><a href="https://docs.bito.ai/account-and-settings/access-key">Learn More</a></p></td><td>Yes</td><td>Bito Access Key is an alternative to standard email and OTP authentication.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>git.provider</strong></td><td><ul><li>GITLAB</li><li>GITHUB</li><li>BITBUCKET</li></ul></td><td>Yes, if the mode is CLI.</td><td>The name of git repository provider.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>git.access_token</strong></td><td>A valid Git access token provided by GITLAB or GITHUB or BITBUCKET</td><td>Yes</td><td>You can use a personal access token in place of a password when authenticating to GitHub/GitLab/BitBucket in the command line or with the API.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>git.domain</strong></td><td>A URL where Git is hosted.</td><td>No</td><td>It is used to enter the custom URL of self-hosted GitHub/GitLab Enterprise.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>static_analysis</strong></td><td><ul><li>True</li><li>False</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td>Enable or disable static code analysis, which is used to uncover functional issues in the code.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>static_analysis_tool</strong></td><td><ul><li>fb_infer</li><li>astral_ruff</li><li>mypy</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td>Comma-separated list of static analysis tools to run (e.g., <code>fb_infer,astral_ruff,mypy</code>).</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>linters_feedback</strong></td><td><ul><li>True</li><li>False</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td>Enables feedback from linters like ESLint, golangci-lint, and Astral Ruff.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>secret_scanner_feedback</strong></td><td><ul><li>True</li><li>False</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td>Enables detection of secrets in code. For example, passwords, API keys, sensitive information, etc.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>dependency_check</strong></td><td><ul><li>True</li><li>False</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td>This feature is designed to identify security vulnerabilities in open-source dependency packages, specifically for JS/TS/Node.JS and GoLang. Without this input, reviews for security vulnerabilities will not be conducted.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>dependency_check.snyk_auth_token</strong></td><td>A valid authentication token for accessing Snyk's cloud-based security database.</td><td>No</td><td>If not provided, access to Snyk's cloud-based security database for checking security vulnerabilities in open-source dependency packages will not be available.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>code_context</strong></td><td><ul><li>True</li><li>False</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td>Enables enhanced code context awareness.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>server_port</strong></td><td>A valid and available TCP port number.</td><td>No</td><td>This is applicable when the <code>mode</code> is set to <code>server</code>. If not specified, the default value is <code>10051</code>.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>review_comments</strong></td><td><ul><li>1</li><li>2</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td><p>Set the value to <code>1</code> to display the code review in a single post, or <code>2</code> to show code review as inline comments, placing suggestions directly beneath the corresponding lines in each file for clearer guidance on improvements.</p><p><br>The default value is <code>2</code>.</p></td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>review_scope</strong></td><td><ul><li>security</li><li>performance</li><li>scalability</li><li>codeorg</li><li>codeoptimize</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td>Specialized commands to perform detailed analyses on specific aspects of your code.<br><br>You can provide comma-separated values to perform multiple types of code analysis simultaneously.<br><br><a href="../../available-commands#review-scope"><strong>Learn more</strong></a></td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>include_source_branches</strong></td><td>Glob/regex pattern.</td><td>No</td><td>Comma-separated list of branch patterns (glob/regex) to allow as pull request sources.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>include_target_branches</strong></td><td>Glob/regex pattern.</td><td>No</td><td>Comma-separated list of branch patterns (glob/regex) to allow as pull request targets.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>exclude_files</strong></td><td>Glob/regex pattern.</td><td>No</td><td><p>A list of files/folders that the AI Code Review Agent will not review if they are present in the diff.</p><p></p><p>By default, these files are excluded: <code>*.xml</code>, <code>*.json</code>, <code>*.properties</code>, <code>.gitignore</code>, <code>*.yml</code>, <code>*.md</code><br><br><a href="../excluding-files-folders-or-branches-with-filters"><strong>Learn more</strong></a></p></td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>exclude_draft_pr</strong></td><td><ul><li>True</li><li>False</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td>A binary setting that enables/disables automated review of pull requests (PR) based on the draft status.<br><br>The default value is <code>True</code> which skips automated review of draft PR.<br><br><a href="../excluding-files-folders-or-branches-with-filters"><strong>Learn more</strong></a></td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>cra_version</strong></td><td><ul><li>latest</li><li>Any specific version tag</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td>Sets the agent version to run (<code>latest</code> or a specific version tag).</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>post_as_request_changes</strong></td><td><ul><li>True</li><li>False</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td>Posts feedback as 'Request changes' review comments. Depending on your organization's Git settings, you may need to resolve all comments before merging.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>support_email</strong></td><td>Email address</td><td>No</td><td>Contact email shown in error messages.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>suggestion_mode</strong></td><td><ul><li>essential</li><li>comprehensive</li></ul></td><td>No</td><td><p>Controls AI suggestion verbosity. Available options are <code>essential</code> and <code>comprehensive</code>.<br></p><p>In <strong>Essential</strong> mode, only critical issues are posted as inline comments, and other issues appear in the main review summary under "Additional issues".</p><p><br>In <strong>Comprehensive</strong> mode, Bito also includes minor suggestion and potential nitpicks as inline comments.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

&#x20;

&#x20;
