<!-- Code generated by gomarkdoc. DO NOT EDIT -->

# vici

```go
import "github.com/strongswan/govici/vici"
```

Package vici implements a strongSwan vici protocol client. The Go package is documented here. For a complete overview and specification of the vici protocol visit:

```
https://github.com/strongswan/strongswan/blob/master/src/libcharon/plugins/vici/README.md
```

The vici package has two important types that the API is built around. The first is the Session type, which provides communication to the charon daemon over the VICI protocol. This type provides methods for invoking commands on the daemon, and subscribing to server\-issued events. Second is the Message type, which provides an abstraction of the data format transmitted over VICI. The Message type is essentially a map, where values can be either a string, list of strings \(\[\]string\), or a section/sub\-message \(\*Message\). The contents of a Message are most conveniently managed by creating a struct analogous to the message you need to send or receive in a command, and using the MarshalMessage and UnmarshalMessage functions with that struct. There are however, Get, Set, and Unset methods on the Message type for simpler messages.

In order to use this package, it is important to have a basic understanding of the VICI protocol as desribed in the link above. The 'Client\-initiated Commands' section describes all of the available commands you can invoke using a Session. They are invoked by name, exactly as written in that document \(excluding the parenthesis\). For example, if you wanted to call the 'reload\-settings' command, you would pass the string "reload\-settings" as the 'cmd' argument to Session.Call. Each command has its IN and OUT message parameters defined, i.e.:

```
{
    <message IN parameters>
} => {
    <message OUT parameters>
}
```

The Message that defines the IN parameters is passed as the 'msg' argument to Session.Call. If no IN parameters are required, you can safely pass nil instead. The Message returned by Session.Call will contain fields defined by the OUT parameters. Again, the Message type supports marshalling with the MarshalMessage and UnmarshalMessage functions. See the MarshalMessage function documentation for details.

Some commands will stream events while the command is active, such as the "list\-sas" command. For such commands, the VICI protocol defines the event type that is streamed for the command. In the case of the "list\-sas" command, the server will stream "list\-sa" events. To invoke this type of command, use the Session.CallStreaming method, which accepts the event name as an argument in addition to the command name and IN message. For example, calling Session.CallStreaming\(ctx, "list\-sas", "list\-sa", msg\) will return an iterator which produces a sequence of \[\*Message, error\] pairs. The iterator will yield one message for each "list\-sa" event. Any errors encountered while processing the events will be propagated in the second element of the pair.

In addition to Client\-initiated commands, the VICI protocol has a server\-issued events feature. An event is just a named message generated by the server, which is sent to any clients that have subscribed to that event type. The 'Server\-issued events' section of the VICI protocol documentation lists all of the events that can be generated by the server, along with associated message parameters. The Session.Subscribe and Session.Unsubscribe methods are used to control which events the client will receive. For example, a client can subscribe to the 'ike\-updown' and 'child\-updown' events by calling Session.Subscribe\("ike\-updown", "child\-updown"\). To receive events, register a channel with Session.NotifyEvents.

For information on the semantics of VICI message parameters and how they control the strongSwan configuration, see the swanctl.conf documentation:

```
https://docs.strongswan.org/docs/latest/swanctl/swanctlConf.html
```

## Index

- [func UnmarshalMessage\(m \*Message, v any\) error](<#UnmarshalMessage>)
- [type Event](<#Event>)
- [type Message](<#Message>)
  - [func MarshalMessage\(v any\) \(\*Message, error\)](<#MarshalMessage>)
  - [func NewMessage\(\) \*Message](<#NewMessage>)
  - [func \(m \*Message\) Err\(\) error](<#Message.Err>)
  - [func \(m \*Message\) Get\(key string\) any](<#Message.Get>)
  - [func \(m \*Message\) Keys\(\) \[\]string](<#Message.Keys>)
  - [func \(m \*Message\) Set\(key string, value any\) error](<#Message.Set>)
  - [func \(m \*Message\) String\(\) string](<#Message.String>)
  - [func \(m \*Message\) Unset\(key string\)](<#Message.Unset>)
- [type Session](<#Session>)
  - [func NewSession\(opts ...SessionOption\) \(\*Session, error\)](<#NewSession>)
  - [func \(s \*Session\) Call\(ctx context.Context, cmd string, in \*Message\) \(\*Message, error\)](<#Session.Call>)
  - [func \(s \*Session\) CallStreaming\(ctx context.Context, cmd string, event string, in \*Message\) iter.Seq2\[\*Message, error\]](<#Session.CallStreaming>)
  - [func \(s \*Session\) Close\(\) error](<#Session.Close>)
  - [func \(s \*Session\) CommandRequest\(cmd string, msg \*Message\) \(\*Message, error\)](<#Session.CommandRequest>)
  - [func \(s \*Session\) NotifyEvents\(c chan\<\- Event\)](<#Session.NotifyEvents>)
  - [func \(s \*Session\) StopEvents\(c chan\<\- Event\)](<#Session.StopEvents>)
  - [func \(s \*Session\) StreamedCommandRequest\(cmd string, event string, msg \*Message\) \(\[\]\*Message, error\)](<#Session.StreamedCommandRequest>)
  - [func \(s \*Session\) Subscribe\(events ...string\) error](<#Session.Subscribe>)
  - [func \(s \*Session\) Unsubscribe\(events ...string\) error](<#Session.Unsubscribe>)
  - [func \(s \*Session\) UnsubscribeAll\(\) error](<#Session.UnsubscribeAll>)
- [type SessionOption](<#SessionOption>)
  - [func WithAddr\(network, addr string\) SessionOption](<#WithAddr>)
  - [func WithDialContext\(dialer func\(ctx context.Context, network, addr string\) \(net.Conn, error\)\) SessionOption](<#WithDialContext>)
  - [func WithSocketPath\(path string\) SessionOption](<#WithSocketPath>)

<a name="UnmarshalMessage"></a>

## func [UnmarshalMessage](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/message.go#L237>)

```go
func UnmarshalMessage(m *Message, v any) error
```

UnmarshalMessage unmarshals m to a map or struct \(or struct pointer\). When unmarshaling to a struct, only exported fields with a vici struct tag explicitly set are unmarshaled. Struct fields can be unmarshaled inline by providing the opt "inline" to the vici struct tag.

An error is returned if the underlying value of v cannot be unmarshaled into, or an unsupported type is encountered.

<details><summary>Example</summary>
<p>

```go
type child struct {
 LocalTrafficSelectors []string `vici:"local_ts"`
 UpdownScript          string   `vici:"updown"`
 ESPProposals          []string `vici:"esp_proposals"`
}

m := NewMessage()

if err := m.Set("local_ts", []string{"10.1.0.0/16"}); err != nil {
 fmt.Println(err)
 return
}
if err := m.Set("esp_proposals", []string{"aes128gcm128-x25519"}); err != nil {
 fmt.Println(err)
 return
}
if err := m.Set("updown", "/usr/local/libexec/ipsec/_updown iptables"); err != nil {
 fmt.Println(err)
 return
}

var c child

if err := UnmarshalMessage(m, &c); err != nil {
 fmt.Println(err)
 return
}

fmt.Printf("%+v\n", c)
// Output: {LocalTrafficSelectors:[10.1.0.0/16] UpdownScript:/usr/local/libexec/ipsec/_updown iptables ESPProposals:[aes128gcm128-x25519]}
```

#### Output

```
{LocalTrafficSelectors:[10.1.0.0/16] UpdownScript:/usr/local/libexec/ipsec/_updown iptables ESPProposals:[aes128gcm128-x25519]}
```

</p>
</details>

<a name="Event"></a>

## type [Event](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L203-L214>)

Event represents an event received by a Session sent from the charon daemon. It contains an associated Message and corresponds to one of the event types registered with Session.Listen.

```go
type Event struct {
    // Name is the event type name as specified by the
    // charon server, such as "ike-updown" or "log".
    Name string

    // Message is the Message associated with this event.
    Message *Message

    // Timestamp holds the timestamp of when the client
    // received the event.
    Timestamp time.Time
}
```

<a name="Message"></a>

## type [Message](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/message.go#L129-L135>)

Message represents a vici message as described in the vici README:

```
https://github.com/strongswan/strongswan/blob/master/src/libcharon/plugins/vici/README.md
```

A message supports encoding key\-value pairs, lists, and sub\-sections \(or sub\-messages\). Within a Message, each value, list, and sub\-section is keyed by a string.

The value in a key\-value pair is represented by a string, lists are represented by a string slice, and sub\-sections are represented by \*Message. When constructing a Message, other types may be used for convenience, and may have rules on how they are converted to an appropriate internal message element type. See Message.Set and MarshalMessage for details.

```go
type Message struct {
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```

<a name="MarshalMessage"></a>

### func [MarshalMessage](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/message.go#L221>)

```go
func MarshalMessage(v any) (*Message, error)
```

MarshalMessage returns a Message encoded from v. The type of v must be either a map, struct, or struct pointer.

If v is a map, the map's key type must be a string, and the type of the corresponding map element must be supported by Message.Set or MarshalMessage itself.

If v is a struct or points to one, fields are only marshaled if they are exported and explicitly have a vici struct tag set. In these cases, the struct tag defines the key used for that field in the Message, and the field type must be supported by Message.Set or MarshalMessage itself. Embedded structs may be used as fields, either by explicitly giving them a field name with the vici struct tag, or by marking them as inline. Inlined structs are defined by using the opt "inline" on the vici tag, for example: \`vici:",inline"\`.

Any field that would be encoded as an empty message element is always omitted during marshaling. However, "empty message element" is not necessarily analogous to a type's zero value in Go. Because all supported Go types are marshaled to either string, \[\]string, or \*Message, a field is considered an empty message element if it would be encoded as either an empty string, zero\-length \[\]string or nil. On the other hand, an integer's zero value is 0, but this is marshaled to the string "0", and will not be omitted from marshaling. Likewise, a bool's zero value is false, which is marshaled to the string "no".

<details><summary>Example</summary>
<p>

```go
type child struct {
 LocalTrafficSelectors []string `vici:"local_ts"`
 UpdownScript          string   `vici:"updown"`
 ESPProposals          []string `vici:"esp_proposals"`
}

type local struct {
 Auth  string   `vici:"auth"`
 Certs []string `vici:"certs"`
 ID    string   `vici:"id"`
}

type remote struct {
 Auth string `vici:"auth"`
}

type conn struct {
 LocalAddrs   []string         `vici:"local_addrs"`
 Local        local            `vici:"local"`
 Remote       remote           `vici:"remote"`
 Children     map[string]child `vici:"children"`
 IKEVersion   uint             `vici:"version"`
 IKEProposals []string         `vici:"proposals"`
}

// Create a Message that represents the 'rw' connection from this swanctl.conf:
// https://www.strongswan.org/testing/testresults/swanctl/rw-cert/moon.swanctl.conf
rw := &conn{
 LocalAddrs: []string{"192.168.0.1"},
 Local: local{
  Auth:  "pubkey",
  Certs: []string{"moonCert.pem"},
  ID:    "moon.strongswan.org",
 },
 Remote: remote{
  Auth: "pubkey",
 },
 Children: map[string]child{
  "net": {
   LocalTrafficSelectors: []string{"10.1.0.0/16"},
   UpdownScript:          "/usr/local/libexec/ipsec/_updown iptables",
   ESPProposals:          []string{"aes128gcm128-x25519"},
  },
 },
 IKEVersion:   2,
 IKEProposals: []string{"aes128-sha256-x25519"},
}

m, err := MarshalMessage(rw)
if err != nil {
 fmt.Println(err)
 return
}

fmt.Println(m)
// Output: {
//   local_addrs = 192.168.0.1
//   local {
//     auth = pubkey
//     certs = moonCert.pem
//     id = moon.strongswan.org
//   }
//   remote {
//     auth = pubkey
//   }
//   children {
//     net {
//       local_ts = 10.1.0.0/16
//       updown = /usr/local/libexec/ipsec/_updown iptables
//       esp_proposals = aes128gcm128-x25519
//     }
//   }
//   version = 2
//   proposals = aes128-sha256-x25519
// }
```

#### Output

```
{
  local_addrs = 192.168.0.1
  local {
    auth = pubkey
    certs = moonCert.pem
    id = moon.strongswan.org
  }
  remote {
    auth = pubkey
  }
  children {
    net {
      local_ts = 10.1.0.0/16
      updown = /usr/local/libexec/ipsec/_updown iptables
      esp_proposals = aes128gcm128-x25519
    }
  }
  version = 2
  proposals = aes128-sha256-x25519
}
```

</p>
</details>

<a name="NewMessage"></a>

### func [NewMessage](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/message.go#L194>)

```go
func NewMessage() *Message
```

NewMessage returns an empty Message.

<a name="Message.Err"></a>

### func \(\*Message\) [Err](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/message.go#L307>)

```go
func (m *Message) Err() error
```

Err examines a command response Message, and determines if it was successful. If it was, or if the message does not contain a 'success' field, nil is returned. Otherwise, an error is returned using the 'errmsg' field.

<a name="Message.Get"></a>

### func \(\*Message\) [Get](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/message.go#L287>)

```go
func (m *Message) Get(key string) any
```

Get returns the value of the field identified by key, if it exists. If the field does not exist, nil is returned.

The value returned by Get is the internal message representation of that field, which means the type is either string, \[\]string, or \*Message.

<a name="Message.Keys"></a>

### func \(\*Message\) [Keys](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/message.go#L297>)

```go
func (m *Message) Keys() []string
```

Keys returns the list of valid message keys.

<a name="Message.Set"></a>

### func \(\*Message\) [Set](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/message.go#L260>)

```go
func (m *Message) Set(key string, value any) error
```

Set sets key to value. An error is returned if the underlying type of v is not supported.

If the type of v is supported, it is represented in the message as either a string, \[\]string, or \*Message. The currently supported types are:

- string
- integer types \(converted to string\)
- bool \(where true and false are converted to the strings "yes" and "no", respectively\)
- \[\]string
- \*Message
- map \(the map must be valid as per MarshalMessage\)
- struct \(the struct must be valid as per MarshalMessage\)

Pointer types of the above are allowed and can be used to differentiate between an unset value and a zero value. If a pointer is nil, it is not added to the message.

If the key already exists the value is overwritten, but the ordering of the message is not changed.

<details><summary>Example</summary>
<p>

```go
m := NewMessage()

if err := m.Set("version", 2); err != nil {
 fmt.Println(err)
 return
}

if err := m.Set("mobike", false); err != nil {
 fmt.Println(err)
 return
}

if err := m.Set("local_addrs", []string{"192.168.0.1/24"}); err != nil {
 fmt.Println(err)
 return
}

fmt.Println(m)
// Output: {
//   version = 2
//   mobike = no
//   local_addrs = 192.168.0.1/24
// }
```

#### Output

```
{
  version = 2
  mobike = no
  local_addrs = 192.168.0.1/24
}
```

</p>
</details>

<a name="Message.String"></a>

### func \(\*Message\) [String](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/message.go#L337>)

```go
func (m *Message) String() string
```

String returns the string form of m. For readability, the output format is similar to swanctl.conf configuration format.

<a name="Message.Unset"></a>

### func \(\*Message\) [Unset](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/message.go#L266>)

```go
func (m *Message) Unset(key string)
```

Unset unsets the message field identified by key. There is no effect if the key does not exist.

<a name="Session"></a>

## type [Session](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L31-L41>)

Session is a vici client session.

```go
type Session struct {
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```

<a name="NewSession"></a>

### func [NewSession](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L44>)

```go
func NewSession(opts ...SessionOption) (*Session, error)
```

NewSession returns a new vici session.

<a name="Session.Call"></a>

### func \(\*Session\) [Call](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L155>)

```go
func (s *Session) Call(ctx context.Context, cmd string, in *Message) (*Message, error)
```

Call makes a command request to the server, and returns the server's response. The command is specified by cmd, and its arguments are provided by in. If there is an error communicating with the daemon, a nil Message and non\-nil error are returned. If the command fails, the response Message is returned along with the error returned by Message.Err.

The provided context must be non\-nil, and can be used to interrupt blocking network I/O involved in the command request.

<a name="Session.CallStreaming"></a>

### func \(\*Session\) [CallStreaming](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L193>)

```go
func (s *Session) CallStreaming(ctx context.Context, cmd string, event string, in *Message) iter.Seq2[*Message, error]
```

CallStreaming makes a command request to the server which, involves streaming a given event type until the command is complete. The command and event names are specified with cmd and event, and the command arguments are provided by in. If there is an error during the initial command request or event registration, no response messages are returned and a non\-nil error is returned.

When the initial command request and event registration are successful, an iterator is returned which will yield response messages, and possibly errors, as they are received from the server.

The provided context must be non\-nil, and can be used to interrupt blocking network I/O involved in the command request.

<a name="Session.Close"></a>

### func \(\*Session\) [Close](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L75>)

```go
func (s *Session) Close() error
```

Close closes the vici session.

<a name="Session.CommandRequest"></a>

### func \(\*Session\) [CommandRequest](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L143>)

```go
func (s *Session) CommandRequest(cmd string, msg *Message) (*Message, error)
```

CommandRequest sends a command request to the server, and returns the server's response. The command is specified by cmd, and its arguments are provided by msg. If there is an error communicating with the daemon, a nil Message and non\-nil error are returned. If the command fails, the response Message is returned along with the error returned by Message.Err.

Deprecated: Use the Call method instead. CommandRequest will be removed in a future version.

<a name="Session.NotifyEvents"></a>

### func \(\*Session\) [NotifyEvents](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L259>)

```go
func (s *Session) NotifyEvents(c chan<- Event)
```

NotifyEvents registers c for writing received events. The Session must first subscribe to events using the Subscribe method.

Writes to c will not block: the caller must ensure that c has sufficient buffer space to keep up with the expected event rate. If the write to c would block, the event is discarded.

NotifyEvents may be called multiple times with different channels: each channel will indepedently receive a copy of each event received by the Session.

When the Session is Close\(\)'d, or the event listener otherwise exits, e.g. due to the daemon stopping or restarting, c will be closed to indicate that no more events will be passed to it.

<a name="Session.StopEvents"></a>

### func \(\*Session\) [StopEvents](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L264>)

```go
func (s *Session) StopEvents(c chan<- Event)
```

StopEvents stops writing received events to c.

<a name="Session.StreamedCommandRequest"></a>

### func \(\*Session\) [StreamedCommandRequest](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L169>)

```go
func (s *Session) StreamedCommandRequest(cmd string, event string, msg *Message) ([]*Message, error)
```

StreamedCommandRequest sends a streamed command request to the server. StreamedCommandRequest behaves like CommandRequest, but accepts an event argument, which specifies the event type to stream while the command request is active. The complete stream of messages received from the server is returned once the request is complete.

Deprecated: Use the CallStreaming method instead. StreamedCommandRequest will be removed in a future version.

<a name="Session.Subscribe"></a>

### func \(\*Session\) [Subscribe](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L219>)

```go
func (s *Session) Subscribe(events ...string) error
```

Subscribe registers the session to listen for all events given. To receive events that are registered here, use NotifyEvents. An error is returned if Subscribe is not able to register the given events with the charon daemon.

<a name="Session.Unsubscribe"></a>

### func \(\*Session\) [Unsubscribe](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L229>)

```go
func (s *Session) Unsubscribe(events ...string) error
```

Unsubscribe unregisters the given events, so the session will no longer receive events of the given type. If a given event is not valid, an error is retured.

<a name="Session.UnsubscribeAll"></a>

### func \(\*Session\) [UnsubscribeAll](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L238>)

```go
func (s *Session) UnsubscribeAll() error
```

UnsubscribeAll unregisters all events that the session is currently subscribed to.

<a name="SessionOption"></a>

## type [SessionOption](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L81-L83>)

SessionOption is used to specify additional options to a Session.

```go
type SessionOption interface {
    // contains filtered or unexported methods
}
```

<a name="WithAddr"></a>

### func [WithAddr](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L114>)

```go
func WithAddr(network, addr string) SessionOption
```

WithAddr specifies the network and address of the socket that charon is listening on. If this option is not specified, the default path, /var/run/charon.vici, is used.

As the protocol itself currently does not provide any security or authentication properties, it is recommended to run it over a UNIX socket with appropriate permissions.

<a name="WithDialContext"></a>

### func [WithDialContext](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L122>)

```go
func WithDialContext(dialer func(ctx context.Context, network, addr string) (net.Conn, error)) SessionOption
```

WithDialContext specifies the dial func to use when dialing the charon socket.

<a name="WithSocketPath"></a>

### func [WithSocketPath](<https://github.com/strongswan/govici/blob/master/vici/session.go#L100>)

```go
func WithSocketPath(path string) SessionOption
```

WithSocketPath specifies the path of the socket that charon is listening on. If this option is not specified, the default path, /var/run/charon.vici, is used.

Generated by [gomarkdoc](<https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc>)
