# Source: https://docs.avaamo.com/user-guide/how-to/build-skills/create-skill/customize-your-skill/reference-library/skill-commands.md

# Agent commands

The following commands can be used by the user interacting with the agent to perform certain actions as required. Typically, these commands are used by the agent developers for debugging and troubleshooting the queries in the agent simulator:

<table><thead><tr><th width="352.75657783628867">Agent commands</th><th width="494.6435454564729">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>#clear</td><td>Clears the conversation history, resets the context, and starts from the beginning. Note that the conversation history is not deleted, only the history in the agent window is cleared.</td></tr><tr><td>#transfer to agent / #talk to agent</td><td>Transfers the chat to a live agent. </td></tr><tr><td>#end agent</td><td><p>Ends the live agent conversation. </p><p></p><p>The command <code>#end agent</code> is not applicable to Universal agents, since the live agent interactions are handled by individual member agents. See <a href="../../../../../build-agents/create-universal-agent/overview-get-started#connecting-to-a-live-agent">Connecting to live agent in Universal agent</a>, for more information.</p></td></tr><tr><td>#goto_<em>node_&#x3C;&#x3C;skill_key.intent_key</em>>> </td><td><p>The agent displays the response configured of the specified skill response. </p><p></p><p>Typically, this command is used to troubleshoot issues in an agent in a non-production environment. You cannot use this command directly in an agent that is in a production environment. However, you can still use this as a hidden_content in <a href="../how-to/build-dynamic-skill-response/quick-reply">Quick reply </a>and <a href="../how-to/build-dynamic-skill-response/card">Card</a> responses.</p><p></p><p><strong>Example</strong>: #goto_node_macpizza_order.starters</p></td></tr><tr><td>#goto_node_1 or #goto_node_main</td><td>The agent displays the response configured in the Greeting skill.</td></tr><tr><td>reset</td><td>Resets the current conversation with the agent and displays the greeting message. Note that reset does not create a new conversation uuid.</td></tr><tr><td>_debug_</td><td><p>Displays the details of the last query. The debug command provides all the details of the query, user, insights, and skill message. </p><p></p><p>Typically, this command is used to troubleshoot issues in an agent in a non-production environment. Hence, this command does not work in a production environment.</p></td></tr><tr><td>#switch_lang &#x3C;&#x3C;languageCode>></td><td><p>Switches the agent's conversation language to the selected language. You can switch to only those languages that are added to the agent. See <a href="../../../../build-agents/configure-agents/add-languages">Add languages</a>, for more information.</p><p><strong>Example</strong>: #switch_lang fr-FR </p><p></p><p>You can switch back to the default language using <code>#switch_lang auto</code>.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>
