# Source: https://modal.com/docs/guide/billing.md

# Billing

Modal is serverless, which means you only pay for the compute you use or [reserve](/docs/guide/resources). Reservations are not required, and there are no minimum usage-time increments. Up-to-date unit pricing for all of our products is available on our [Pricing page](/pricing).

## Billing frequency and incremental billing

All workspaces are billed monthly. At the end of each billing cycle, you are auto-charged for the Modal usage incurred during that cycle (less any credits and incremental usage charges), as well as any subscription fees (non-Starter plans only) for the following billing cycle.

In addition to monthly billing, you will be auto-charged for incremental usage the first time you exceed certain thresholds. These charges occur within the billing cycle.

## Setting a workspace budget

To set limits on how how much Modal usage can be incurred within the monthly billing period, go to the “Workspace budget” section of [Usage & Billing](/settings/usage). The max you can set this limit to is based on the history of prior successful charges to your payment method. Within a billing period, you may be charged for incremental usage when you pass certain thresholds. If those charges are successful, the max cap goes up.

## Updating billing information

To update your billing information, click on “Manage payment details” in the [Usage & Billing](/settings/usage) section of Settings. This will take you to a Stripe-hosted page where you can update your payment method and/or billing email.

Note that you must have a payment method on file in order to use Modal. If you would like to remove your payment method and delete your workspace, please contact <support@modal.com>.

## Viewing invoice history

To view your invoice history and/or download receipts, click on “View invoices” in the [Usage & Billing](/settings/usage) section of Settings. You should see an “Invoice History” section at the bottom of the Stripe-hosted page.

## Generating billing reports

We also offer programmatic APIs for exporting billing reports to workspaces at the Team and Enterprise plan levels. Use the APIs in [`modal.billing`](/docs/reference/modal.billing) or the [`modal billing`](/docs/reference/cli/billing) CLI to generate tabular reports of spend over time broken down across specific Modal Apps or other resources.

Note that the granular billing reports generated by these interfaces show a cost breakdown before factoring in credits or reservations, so the total invoiced cost may be less than the aggregate from these reports.

## Attributing costs

We offer a flexible tagging system so that you can categorize your Apps and properly attribute spend across your workspace to different teams, projects, etc. Tags are key-value pairs that can be set when deploying an App or assigned to already running Apps:

```python
app = modal.App(name="inference-engine", tags={"team": "llm-platform"})
```

When generating a billing report through the API or CLI, you can request to have specific tags included for each row in the report.

## Custom invoicing

Invoiced billing, international bank transfer payment methods, splitting invoices, and other custom requirements are available to customers on an [Enterprise plan](/pricing) who have a usage commitment with us. Please contact <sales@modal.com>.

Questions on billing? Reach out to <billing@modal.com>.
