# Source: https://docs.gitguardian.com/secrets-detection/secrets-detection-engine/encrypted_secrets.md

# Encrypted Secrets

> Encrypted secrets are secrets which are not stored in clear-text: they are encrypted using a key stored in a secured area.  
Those are safe to share publicly. As such, GitGuardian strives not to report encrypted secrets as leaks.

## What are encrypted secrets?

Encrypted secrets are secrets which are not stored in clear-text: they are encrypted using a key stored in a secured area.  
Those are safe to share publicly. As such, GitGuardian strives not to report encrypted secrets as leaks.

## Heuristics we use

Since we don't want to report encrypted secrets as leaks, we have to identify which secrets are encrypted: at first glance, an encrypted secret might seem very similar to an unencrypted one. Here are different heuristics we use to identify encrypted secrets.

Note that a secret is often composed of several [matches](./glossary#match). GitGuardian considers the secret encrypted if at least one of the matches is encrypted.

### Found by a generic detector

First, the secret must have been found by a generic detector. Patterns used by API-specific detectors are unlikely to mistakenly match an encrypted secret, because these patterns have constraints like starting with a given prefix, being of a precise length, or consisting of a specific set of characters.

### Stored in a file generated by encrypting tools

Tools like [SOPS](https://github.com/mozilla/sops) can encrypt and decrypt secrets in JSON or YAML files. We skip files whose extensions match those used by such tools.

### Match BCrypt or Crypt format

If one of the secret matches follows the format of a [BCrypt hash string](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt#Description) or a [Crypt hash string](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crypt_(C)) it is considered encrypted.

### Context hints

If the text before one of the matches contains one of the following common encryption indicators (this list is non-exhaustive):
- "ENC[" or "ENC("
- "SealedSecret"
- "encrypteddata"
- "encryptedpassword"
- "encryptedsecrets"
- "encvalues"
- "secure"
- "type: Opaque"

Then the match is considered encrypted.

### Base64 encrypted data

If the match is a long Base64-encoded string and the first decoded bytes match: (1, 0), (2, 0), (1,1) or (10, 36, 0) then the match is considered to be Base64 encrypted data.
