# Source: https://render.com/docs/postgresql-apps.md

# Admin Apps for Render Postgres — Quickly connect pgAdmin or PgHero to your database.

Render provides simplified deployment and configuration for popular PostgreSQL admin apps right from the [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com):

| App                                            | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| ---------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [*pgAdmin*](https://www.pgadmin.org/)        | General-purpose PostgreSQL administration. Manage schemas, tables, and indexes. Run one-off queries and view their query plans.                    |
| [*PgHero*](https://github.com/ankane/pghero) | A performance dashboard for your database. Monitor resource usage, analyze active connections, and inspect recent queries to identify bottlenecks. |

> *Interested in simplified deployment for another admin app?* Please [submit a feature request](https://feedback.render.com).

Render deploys each app as a standard [web service](web-services) and automatically connects it to your database over your [private network](private-network).

## Setup

1. In the [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com), select your database from the service list and open its *Apps* page:

   [image: List of PostgreSQL admin apps in the Render Dashboard]

2. Click the *Deploy app* button for the app you want to create. A dialog appears with authentication and billing details:

   [image: Confirmation dialog for creating a PostgreSQL admin app]

3. *Securely store the autogenerated credentials* for the app (such as in a password manager). You'll use these credentials to log in to the app's web interface.

   - You can optionally customize these credentials.
   - The credentials will also be available as environment variables in the created Render service.

4. Review the billing details. If everything looks good, click the *Deploy* button.

   - Render uses the smallest compute specs possible according to the app's requirements.

You're all set! Render deploys your admin app as a [web service](web-services) in the same region as your database. When the deploy completes, the app's listing displays a *Deployed* label, along with an *Open app* button:

[image: A deployed PostgreSQL admin app in the Render Dashboard]

Click *Open app* to open the app's web interface in a new browser tab and log in with your credentials. The app is hosted on an `onrender.com` subdomain like any other web service.

> *Missing your app's credentials?* See [App credentials](#app-credentials).

## Managing an existing app

After you create a PostgreSQL admin app, it appears alongside your other services in the [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com):

[image: PostgreSQL admin apps in the service list]

You can manage or delete this service like any other Render service. *Note that modifying the service's environment variables can break the app's connection to your database.*

### App credentials

> Your app credentials are separate from your _database_ credentials. Database credentials are available from your database's *Info* page in the [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com).

If you didn't save your app credentials during [setup](#setup), they're available as [environment variables](configure-environment-variables) set for the created Render service:

- *PgHero:* `PGHERO_USERNAME` and `PGHERO_PASSWORD`
- *pgAdmin:* `PGADMIN_DEFAULT_EMAIL` and `PGADMIN_DEFAULT_PASSWORD`
  - Note that if you change your password via the pgAdmin UI, the `PGADMIN_DEFAULT_PASSWORD` environment variable does _not_ update.
  - You cannot trigger a password reset email from the pgAdmin UI. If you lose your password, delete and redeploy the pgAdmin service.