# Source: https://docs.klarna.com/klarna-search/integrate-klarna-search/product-feed-for-klarna-search-and-compare.md

# Product feed for Klarna Search & Compare

## What is a product feed?

A product feed is a digital file, typically formatted in XML, CSV, or JSON, containing detailed information about the products that you want to sell. [Here is an example of a product feed](https://assets.ctfassets.net/31h9ykss8g0q/6IUoK3iNf8VGyKZ2sWCk3V/ea9c6162325ec271056bd6b89898d4a5/productfeed.xml)  A good product feed increases the visibility of your products on our site. Including [basic fields](https://docs.klarna.com/marketing/solutions/klarna-search/getting-started/product-file) is recommended, as the more detailed a product feed you can provide, the better. **How to create a product feed?** We would like to make it easy for you to create a product feed. Therefore, we have compiled an overview with some plugins you can install for the most popular eCommerce platforms. **Do you already have a product feed that you use for advertising on Google Shopping?** In 9 out of 10 cases, we can use it.

## Find your platform here:

## WooCommerce

**Product Feed PRO for WooCommerce** is a highly recommended free plugin that allows you to create product feeds for over 100 marketing channels, including Google Shopping, Facebook, and Bing, with no limit on the number of feeds or products. It's known for its versatility and ease of use​​​​. **WooCommerce Product Feed Manager** stands out for its ability to connect your store to a wide array of marketplaces (168 in total), like Google Shopping, Zalando, and Pinterest. It supports auto-sync with Google Shopping, category mapping, and advanced filtering options. Both free and paid versions are available, with the paid version offering unlimited products and additional features​​. **CTX Feed – WooCommerce Product Feed Manager Plugin**supports more than 130 affiliate platforms and marketing channels, offering hundreds of preset templates for feed generation. It provides access to unlimited filters, dynamic pricing, automatic feed scheduling, and even support for multiple vendors, languages, and currencies.  **ELEX WooCommerce Google Shopping (Google Product Feed)** specifically focuses on creating product feeds for Google Shopping. It streamlines the feed creation process into a five-step procedure, covering aspects like category and attribute mapping, and filtering options. **Google Product Feed** enables the creation of XML files for Google Merchant account imports, ensuring your products are featured in Google Shopping results. It allows for extensive field mapping and supports various feed types, including local inventory and product reviews, making it a versatile choice for Google Shopping integration. The plugin is available at a premium​​.

## Shopify

**Simprosys**supports product feed submission for Google Shopping, Free Listings on Google, Facebook Shop, Checkout on Facebook, FB Dynamic Product Ads, Instagram Shop, Google Local Inventory Ads, Pinterest Ads, and Microsoft Shopping Ads. You can easily create & manage Google Ads Performance Max (PMax) Campaigns and Microsoft Ads Smart Shopping Campaigns, with an option to set up conversion tracking & dynamic remarketing tagging. **DataFeedWatch** enables easy creation of product feeds for over 2,000 channels and marketplaces, including Google Shopping, Facebook Ads, Pinterest, TikTok, and Amazon. It offers preloaded product feed templates for channel-specific requirements, eliminating the need for developers or coding. The app is designed to fill data feed gaps, fix feed errors, and improve sales performance across all channels. **Channable**connects your shop with over 2,500 channels and marketplaces. It not only manages product data feeds but also offers insights to optimize your ads on Microsoft and Google. You can create customized feeds for every platform, enhancing and optimizing product data with easy rule application, all aimed at growing your business more efficiently​. **Feedyio**is designed to streamline the management of product shopping feeds across multiple marketplaces. It facilitates the creation of product feeds for a variety of shopping platforms and allows for the customization of XML, CSV, or TXT feeds. Feedyio supports integrations with numerous platforms and offers templates for popular channels, simplifying feed management for Shopify store owners. **ShoppingFeeder**is designed for multi-channel marketing, allowing seamless integration with platforms like Google Shopping, Facebook, and TikTok. It offers features like AI Magic for optimizing product data feeds and supports over 300 channels. The app simplifies creating effective campaigns and resolving Google Merchant Center issues, aiming to boost sales and traffic.

## Magento

**Channable**connects your shop with over 2,500 channels and marketplaces. It not only manages product data feeds but also offers insights to optimize your ads on Microsoft and Google. You can create customized feeds for every platform, enhancing and optimizing product data with easy rule application, all aimed at growing your business more efficiently​. **GoDataFeed** streamlines product feed optimization, allowing easy import, mapping, modification, and scheduling of product feeds. It connects your Magento store to over 200 channels, ensuring accurate, compliant, and optimized product data across various platforms​​.

## PrestaShop

**Channable**connects your shop with over 2,500 channels and marketplaces. It not only manages product data feeds but also offers insights to optimize your ads on Microsoft and Google. You can create customized feeds for every platform, enhancing and optimizing product data with easy rule application, all aimed at growing your business more efficiently​. **DataFeedWatch**enables easy creation of product feeds for over 2,000 channels and marketplaces, including Google Shopping, Facebook Ads, Pinterest, TikTok, and Amazon. It offers preloaded product feed templates for channel-specific requirements, eliminating the need for developers or coding. The app is designed to fill data feed gaps, fix feed errors, and improve sales performance across all channels.

## Wix

If your webshop is made in Wix, they have created a guide on how to [add your products to Google Merchant Center](https://support.wix.com/en/article/adding-wix-store-products-to-your-google-merchant-center-catalog), so that you get a Google Shopping feed. **Do you have a link to your feed?** When you have created your product feed, you can share it with your dedicated client manager or your local operations team and we will do the rest. Some product feed solutions are free, while others require a monthly fee. The paid options often include additional tools and insights for your product data, which can be particularly beneficial if you use your product feed across multiple sales channels.