# Analyze Semgrep Code findings with Semgrep Assistant

Source: https://semgrep.dev/docs/semgrep-assistant/analyze

- [](/docs/)- [Scan](/docs/getting-started/quickstart)- Semgrep Assistant- Analyze Code findings**On this page- [Deployment](/docs/tags/deployment)- [Semgrep Assistant](/docs/tags/semgrep-assistant)Analyze Semgrep Code findings with Semgrep Assistant
Once you&#x27;ve [enabled Assistant](/docs/semgrep-assistant/getting-started), you can use the **Analyze** button on the [Findings page](/docs/semgrep-code/findings) to trigger all Assistant functions for Semgrep Code, including autofix, auto-triage, and component tagging, on existing findings.

## Analyze your findings with Assistant[​](#analyze-your-findings-with-assistant)

- On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, select the findings that you want Assistant to analyze.
- Click **Analyze**.
- In the confirmation dialog that appears, confirm that you want to analyze your findings with Assistant.

After Assistant performs these functions, you can see its results on the **Code** page using the **Recommendation** or **Component** filters. When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive recommendations in a finding&#x27;s **Details** page.

The amount of time required to analyze your findings varies. Before running the analysis, the confirmation dialog provides an estimated wait time.

info
- For Team tier users with less than 10 contributors: There is a cap of 50 Assistant runs per month using the **Analyze** button.
- For Team or Enterprise users with an active subscription: There is a cap of 10,000 Assistant runs per month using the **Analyze** button. It is rate-limited to 1,000 Assistant runs per hour.
- For users of any tier: Assistant runs against pull requests (PRs) and merge requests (MRs) do not count against this limit.

## When Assistant auto-analyzes findings[​](#when-assistant-auto-analyzes-findings)
Assistant automatically analyzes new findings from a **full scan** that have **Critical** or **High** severity AND **High** or **Medium** confidence.

On a diff-aware scan, Assistant auto-analyzes up to a maximum 10 new findings, regardless of severity or confidence.

noteSome findings created before November 2025 may not be auto-analyzed, even if they meet the criteria.

### Request analysis for existing findings[​](#request-analysis-for-existing-findings)
If you want Assistant analyses for findings that weren&#x27;t automatically analyzed, you can request them in bulk through Semgrep AppSec Platform. See the [Analyze your findings with Assistant](#analyze-your-findings-with-assistant) section for details.

If you need assistance with bulk analysis requests or have questions about backfilling analyses for your findings, contact [Semgrep Support](/docs/support).

## View Assistant recommendations[​](#view-assistant-recommendations)
You can [view all of Semgrep Assistant&#x27;s recommendations](/docs/semgrep-code/findings#filter-findings) by going to the Semgrep **Findings** page and filtering by **Recommendation** or **Component**.

## Provide feedback on Assistant recommendations[​](#provide-feedback-on-assistant-recommendations)
Semgrep Assistant prompts you for feedback whenever it suggests that a finding is a false positive. Because Assistant content is generated by large language models (LLMs), your feedback helps the Semgrep team improve Assistant.

Semgrep Assistant lets you leave feedback in the following places:

- In Semgrep AppSec Platform: the Assistant recommendation appears in Semgrep Code&#x27;s **Finding Details** page under **Activity**, along with **Agree and ignore** or **Disagree** buttons.
- In Slack notifications: the **Agree** and **Disagree** buttons appear under the Assistant recommendation message.

If Semgrep Assistant suggests that a finding is a true positive and supplies an autofix suggestion, there is no automated mechanism to leave feedback on this outcome. Feel free to contact [Semgrep Support](/docs/support) to let us know your thoughts.

Not finding what you need in this doc? Ask questions in our [Community Slack group](https://go.semgrep.dev/slack), or see [Support](/docs/support/) for other ways to get help.

Tags:**- [Deployment](/docs/tags/deployment)- [Semgrep Assistant](/docs/tags/semgrep-assistant)[Edit this page](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-docs/edit/main/docs/semgrep-assistant/analyze.md)Last updated on **Dec 12, 2025**