# Source: https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/ios/lists-of-data.md.txt

## Get a FIRDatabaseReference

To read or write data from the database, you need an instance of
`FIRDatabaseReference`:

### Swift


**Note:** This Firebase product is not available on the App Clip target.

```swift
var ref: DatabaseReference!

ref = Database.database().reference()
```

### Objective-C


**Note:** This Firebase product is not available on the App Clip target.

```objective-c
@property (strong, nonatomic) FIRDatabaseReference *ref;

self.ref = [[FIRDatabase database] reference];
```

> [!NOTE]
> **Note:** By default, read and write access to your database is restricted so only authenticated users can read or write data. To get started without setting up [Authentication](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth), you can [configure your rules for public access](https://firebase.google.com/docs/rules/basics#default_rules_locked_mode). This does make your database open to anyone, even people not using your app, so be sure to restrict your database again when you set up authentication.

## Reading and writing lists

### Append to a list of data

Use the `childByAutoId` method to append data to a list in multiuser
applications. The `childByAutoId` method generates a unique key every time a new
child is added to the specified Firebase reference. By using these
auto-generated keys for each new element in the list, several clients can add
children to the same location at the same time without write conflicts. The
unique key generated by `childByAutoId` is based on a timestamp, so list items
are automatically ordered chronologically.

You can use the reference to the new data returned by the `childByAutoId` method
to get the value of the child's auto-generated key or set data for the child.
Calling `getKey` on a `childByAutoId` reference returns the auto-generated key.

You can use these auto-generated keys to simplify flattening your data
structure. For more information, see the data fan-out
[example](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/ios/structure-data#fanout).

### Listen for child events

Child events are triggered in response to specific operations that happen to the
children of a node from an operation such as a new child added through the
`childByAutoId` method or a child being updated through the
`updateChildValues` method.

| Event type | Typical usage |
|---|---|
| `FIRDataEventTypeChildAdded` | Retrieve lists of items or listen for additions to a list of items. This event is triggered once for each existing child and then again every time a new child is added to the specified path. The listener is passed a snapshot containing the new child's data. |
| `FIRDataEventTypeChildChanged` | Listen for changes to the items in a list. This event is triggered any time a child node is modified. This includes any modifications to descendants of the child node. The snapshot passed to the event listener contains the updated data for the child. |
| `FIRDataEventTypeChildRemoved` | Listen for items being removed from a list. This event is triggered when an immediate child is removed.The snapshot passed to the callback block contains the data for the removed child. |
| `FIRDataEventTypeChildMoved` | Listen for changes to the order of items in an ordered list. This event is triggered whenever an update causes reordering of the child. It is used with data that is ordered by `queryOrderedByChild ` or `queryOrderedByValue`. |

Each of these together can be useful for listening to changes to a specific
node in a database. For example, a social blogging app might use these methods
together to monitor activity in the comments of a post, as shown below:

### Swift


**Note:** This Firebase product is not available on the App Clip target.

```swift
// Listen for new comments in the Firebase database
commentsRef.observe(.childAdded, with: { (snapshot) -> Void in
  self.comments.append(snapshot)
  self.tableView.insertRows(
    at: [IndexPath(row: self.comments.count - 1, section: self.kSectionComments)],
    with: UITableView.RowAnimation.automatic
  )
})
// Listen for deleted comments in the Firebase database
commentsRef.observe(.childRemoved, with: { (snapshot) -> Void in
  let index = self.indexOfMessage(snapshot)
  self.comments.remove(at: index)
  self.tableView.deleteRows(
    at: [IndexPath(row: index, section: self.kSectionComments)],
    with: UITableView.RowAnimation.automatic
  )
})
```

### Objective-C


**Note:** This Firebase product is not available on the App Clip target.

```objective-c
// Listen for new comments in the Firebase database
[_commentsRef
              observeEventType:FIRDataEventTypeChildAdded
              withBlock:^(FIRDataSnapshot *snapshot) {
                [self.comments addObject:snapshot];
                [self.tableView insertRowsAtIndexPaths:@[
                  [NSIndexPath indexPathForRow:self.comments.count - 1 inSection:kSectionComments]
                ]
                                      withRowAnimation:UITableViewRowAnimationAutomatic];
              }];
// Listen for deleted comments in the Firebase database
[_commentsRef
 observeEventType:FIRDataEventTypeChildRemoved
 withBlock:^(FIRDataSnapshot *snapshot) {
   int index = [self indexOfMessage:snapshot];
   [self.comments removeObjectAtIndex:index];
   [self.tableView deleteRowsAtIndexPaths:@[[NSIndexPath indexPathForRow:index inSection:kSectionComments]]
                         withRowAnimation:UITableViewRowAnimationAutomatic];
 }];
```

### Listen for value events

While listening for child events is the recommended way to read lists of data,
there are situations listening for value events on a list reference is useful.

Attaching a `FIRDataEventTypeValue` observer to a list of data will return the
entire list of data as a single DataSnapshot, which you can then loop over to
access individual children.

Even when there is only a single match for the query, the snapshot is still a
list; it just contains a single item. To access the item, you need to loop
over the result:

### Swift


**Note:** This Firebase product is not available on the App Clip target.

```swift
_commentsRef.observe(.value) { snapshot in
  for child in snapshot.children {
    ...
  }
}
```

### Objective-C


**Note:** This Firebase product is not available on the App Clip target.

```objective-c
[_commentsRef
              observeEventType:FIRDataEventTypeValue
              withBlock:^(FIRDataSnapshot *snapshot) {
                // Loop over children
                NSEnumerator *children = [snapshot children];
                FIRDataSnapshot *child;
                while (child = [children nextObject]) {
                  // ...
                }
              }];
```

This pattern can be useful when you want to fetch all children of a list
in a single operation, rather than listening for additional child added
events.

## Sorting and filtering data

You can use the Realtime Database `FIRDatabaseQuery` class to retrieve data sorted
by key, by value, or by the value of a child. You can also filter
the sorted result to a specific number of results or a range of keys or
values.

> [!NOTE]
> **Note:** Filtering and sorting can be expensive, especially when done on the client. If your app uses queries, define the `.indexOn` rule to index those keys on the server and improve query performance as described in [Indexing Your Data](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/security/indexing-data).

### Sort data

To retrieve sorted data, start by specifying one of the order-by methods to
determine how results are ordered:

| Method | Usage |
|---|---|
| `queryOrderedByKey` | Order results by child keys. |
| `queryOrderedByValue` | Order results by child values. |
| `queryOrderedByChild` | Order results by the value of a specified child key or nested child path. |

You can only use **one** order-by method at a time. Calling an order-by method
multiple times in the same query throws an error.

The following example demonstrates how you could retrieve a list of a user's
top posts sorted by their star count:

### Swift


**Note:** This Firebase product is not available on the App Clip target.

```swift
// My top posts by number of stars
let myTopPostsQuery = ref.child("user-posts").child(getUid()).queryOrdered(byChild: "starCount")
```

### Objective-C


**Note:** This Firebase product is not available on the App Clip target.

```objective-c
// My top posts by number of stars
FIRDatabaseQuery *myTopPostsQuery = [[[self.ref child:@"user-posts"]
                                      child:[super getUid]]
                                     queryOrderedByChild:@"starCount"];
```

This query retrieves the user's posts from the path in the database based on
their user ID, ordered by the number of stars each post has received. This
technique of using IDs as index keys is called data fan out, you can read
more about it in
[Structure Your Database](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/ios/structure-data#fanout).

The call to the `queryOrderedByChild` method specifies the child key to order
the results by. In this example, posts are sorted by the value of the
`"starCount"` child in each post. Queries can also be ordered by nested
children, in case you have data that looks like this:

```
"posts": {
  "ts-functions": {
    "metrics": {
      "views" : 1200000,
      "likes" : 251000,
      "shares": 1200,
    },
    "title" : "Why you should use TypeScript for writing Cloud Functions",
    "author": "Doug",
  },
  "android-arch-3": {
    "metrics": {
      "views" : 900000,
      "likes" : 117000,
      "shares": 144,
    },
    "title" : "Using Android Architecture Components with Firebase Realtime Database (Part 3)",
    "author": "Doug",
  }
},
```

In this case, we can order our list elements by values nested under the
`metrics` key by specifying the relative path to the nested child in our
`queryOrderedByChild` call.

### Swift


**Note:** This Firebase product is not available on the App Clip target.

```swift
 
let postsByMostPopular = ref.child("posts").queryOrdered(byChild: "metrics/views")
```

### Objective-C


**Note:** This Firebase product is not available on the App Clip target.

```objective-c
 
FIRDatabaseQuery *postsByMostPopular = [[ref child:@"posts"] queryOrderedByChild:@"metrics/views"];
```

For more information on how other data types are ordered,
see [How query data is ordered](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/ios/lists-of-data#data_order).

### Filtering data

To filter data, you can combine any of the limit or range methods with an
order-by method when constructing a query.

| Method | Usage |
|---|---|
| `queryLimitedToFirst` | Sets the maximum number of items to return from the beginning of the ordered list of results. |
| `queryLimitedToLast` | Sets the maximum number of items to return from the end of the ordered list of results. |
| `queryStartingAtValue` | Return items greater than or equal to the specified key or value, depending on the order-by method chosen. |
| `queryStartingAfterValue` | Return items greater than the specified key or value, depending on the order-by method chosen. |
| `queryEndingAtValue` | Return items less than or equal to the specified key or value, depending on the order-by method chosen. |
| `queryEndingBeforeValue` | Return items less than the specified key or value, depending on the order-by method chosen. |
| `queryEqualToValue` | Return items equal to the specified key or value, depending on the order-by method chosen. |

Unlike the order-by methods, you can combine multiple limit or range functions.
For example, you can combine the `queryStartingAtValue` and `queryEndingAtValue` methods to limit
the results to a specified range of values.

#### Limit the number of results

You can use the `queryLimitedToFirst` and `queryLimitedToLast` methods to set a
maximum number of children to be synced for a given callback. For example, if
you use `queryLimitedToFirst` to set a limit of 100, you initially only receive up
to 100 `FIRDataEventTypeChildAdded` callbacks. If you have fewer than 100 items stored in your
Firebase database, an `FIRDataEventTypeChildAdded` callback fires for each item.

As items change, you receive `FIRDataEventTypeChildAdded` callbacks for items that enter the
query and `FIRDataEventTypeChildRemoved` callbacks for items that drop out of it so that
the total number stays at 100.

The following example demonstrates how an example blogging app might retrieve a
list of the 100 most recent posts by all users:

### Swift


**Note:** This Firebase product is not available on the App Clip target.

```swift
// Last 100 posts, these are automatically the 100 most recent
// due to sorting by push() keys
let recentPostsQuery = (ref?.child("posts").queryLimited(toFirst: 100))!
```

### Objective-C


**Note:** This Firebase product is not available on the App Clip target.

```objective-c
// Last 100 posts, these are automatically the 100 most recent
// due to sorting by push() keys
FIRDatabaseQuery *recentPostsQuery = [[self.ref child:@"posts"] queryLimitedToFirst:100];
```

#### Filter by key or value

You can use `queryStartingAtValue`, `queryStartingAfterValue`,
`queryEndingAtValue`, `queryEndingBeforeValue`, and `queryEqualToValue`
to choose arbitrary starting, ending, and equivalence points for queries. This
can be useful for paginating data or finding items with children that have a
specific value.

### How query data is ordered

This section explains how data is sorted by each of the order-by methods in the
`FIRDatabaseQuery` class.

#### `queryOrderedByKey`

When using `queryOrderedByKey` to sort your data, data is returned in ascending order
by key.

1. Children with a key that can be parsed as a 32-bit integer come first, sorted in ascending order.
2. Children with a string value as their key come next, sorted lexicographically in ascending order.

#### `queryOrderedByValue`

When using `queryOrderedByValue`, children are ordered by their value. The ordering
criteria are the same as in `queryOrderedByChild`, except the value of the node is
used instead of the value of a specified child key.

#### `queryOrderedByChild`

When using `queryOrderedByChild`, data that contains the specified child key is
ordered as follows:

1. Children with a `nil` value for the specified child key come first.
2. Children with a value of `false` for the specified child key come next. If multiple children have a value of `false`, they are sorted [lexicographically](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lexicographical_order) by key.
3. Children with a value of `true` for the specified child key come next. If multiple children have a value of `true`, they are sorted lexicographically by key.
4. Children with a numeric value come next, sorted in ascending order. If multiple children have the same numerical value for the specified child node, they are sorted by key.
5. Strings come after numbers and are sorted lexicographically in ascending order. If multiple children have the same value for the specified child node, they are ordered lexicographically by key.
6. Objects come last and are sorted lexicographically by key in ascending order.

## Detach listeners

Observers don't automatically stop syncing data when you leave a
`ViewController`. If an observer isn't properly removed, it continues to sync
data to local memory and will retain any objects captured in the event handler
closure, which can cause memory leaks. When an observer is no longer needed,
remove it by passing the associated `FIRDatabaseHandle` to the
`removeObserverWithHandle` method.

When you add a callback block to a reference, a `FIRDatabaseHandle` is returned.
These handles can be used to remove the callback block.

If multiple listeners have been added to a database reference, each listener is
called when an event is raised. In order to stop syncing data at that location,
you must remove all observers at a location by calling the `removeAllObservers`
method.

Calling `removeObserverWithHandle` or `removeAllObservers` on a listener does
not automatically remove listeners registered on its child nodes; you must also
be keep track of those references or handles to remove them.

## Next Steps

- [Learn how to structure data](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/ios/structure-data)
- [Store data offline](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/ios/offline-capabilities)