# Source: https://firebase.google.com/docs/extensions/manage-installed-extensions.md.txt

<br />

To install or manage extensions, you must be assigned one of these roles:[Owner or Editor](https://firebase.google.com/docs/projects/iam/roles-basic)or[Firebase Admin](https://firebase.google.com/docs/projects/iam/roles-predefined-all-products).  
Firebase consoleFirebase CLIAutogenerated SDK  

<br />

## List a project's installed extension instances

You can list every instance of the extensions you installed.

Run the extensions-list command:  

```
firebase ext:list --project=projectId-or-alias
```

## View details and configuration of an installed extension instance

1. Go to your[Firebase Extensionsdashboard](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/extensions/)in theFirebaseconsole.

2. On the installed extension instance's card, click**Manage**.

## Monitor an installed extension instance

In theFirebaseconsole, you can monitor the activity of an installed extension, including checks on its health, usage, and logs.

### Set budget alerts

Setting budget alerts is a good practice in general, but alerts may be especially important when you're trusting another party's code to run in your project.

Make sure that you set up[budget alerts](https://firebase.google.com/docs/projects/billing/avoid-surprise-bills#set-up-budget-alert-emails)for your Firebase project.

### View functions created by extensions

1. Go to your[Functions dashboard](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/functions/list)of theFirebaseconsole.

2. In the*Dashboard* tab, you can view the functions fromFirebase Extensions(alongside any other functions that you've deployed for your project).

   Functions created by extensions have names, in the format:**ext-** <var translate="no">extension-instance-id</var>**-** <var translate="no">functionName</var>

   For example:`ext-awesome-task-simplifier-onUserCreate`

### ViewCloud Schedulerjobs created by extensions

1. Open your project's[Cloud Scheduler](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudscheduler?project=_)page in theGoogle Cloudconsole.

2. In the Jobs list, you can view theCloud Schedulerjobs fromFirebase Extensions(alongside any other jobs you've created for your project).

   Jobs created by extensions have names in the format:**firebase-ext-** <var translate="no">extension-instance-id</var>**-** <var translate="no">functionName</var>

   For example:`firebase-ext-awesome-task-simplifier-doTask`

### View and manage Cloud Tasks enqueued by extensions

Some extensions use[Cloud Tasks](https://cloud.google.com/tasks/docs/)to run longer-running tasks: most commonly, processing tasks that run at various points in an extension's lifecycle---installation, reconfiguration, and after upgrades.

Normally, these tasks run and complete automatically, without your intervention. However, if you ever need to manually manage an extension's queued tasks---for example, to pause the queue or remove from the queue a task that hasn't started yet---follow these steps:

1. In theFirebaseconsole[Extensions](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/extensions)section, open the extension instance's details page.

2. On the details page, open the**APIs and resources** section. If the extension uses Cloud Tasks, there will be a**Cloud Task queues**section with one or more entries.

3. Click**View queue** for the queue you want to manage. This will open the Queue Details page in theGoogle Cloudconsole, from which you can view queued tasks, pause the queue, remove tasks from the queue, and so on. See[Manage queues and tasks](https://cloud.google.com/tasks/docs/deleting-appengine-queues-and-tasks)in the Cloud Tasks documentation.

   | **Note:** You can pause a queue, but if you leave it paused for too long, tasks might fail with authentication errors when you resume the queue. (Task authentication expires an hour after it joins the queue.)

   <br />

   | **Warning:** Don't delete the queue; the extension needs it to operate. If you accidentally delete the queue, you'll have to do the following:
   |
   | <br />
   |
   | 1. Install a new instance of the extension.
   | 2. Only after installing the new instance, uninstall the old instance.

### View Cloud Secret Manager secrets created by extensions

1. Open your project's[Secret Manager](https://console.cloud.google.com/security/secret-manager?project=_)page in theGoogle Cloudconsole.

2. In the Secrets list, you can view the secrets created forFirebase Extensions(alongside any other secrets you've created for your project).

   Secrets created by extensions have names in the format:**ext-** <var translate="no">extension-instance-id</var>**-** <var translate="no">paramnName</var>

   For example:`ext-awesome-task-simplifier-API_KEY`

   Secrets are labeled with the key`firebase-extensions-managed`. Don't remove this label unless you want to stop Firebase from managing the secret.

### Check if an installed extension is healthy

You can review all the errors from functions (including those created byFirebase Extensions) in the console.

1. In the*Health* tab of your[Functions dashboard](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/functions/list), you can view an overview of errors and performance information for all functions in your project.

2. To view information for a specific extension, use the filter at the top of the page to select a specific function.

### Check how often an installed extension is running

1. In the*Dashboard* tab of your[Functions dashboard](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/functions/list), locate the specific function for theFirebase Extensionthat you want to check.

2. Clickmore_vert(the overflow menu) on the far right-side of the entry, then select**Detailed usage stats**.

3. In the displayedGoogle Cloudconsole, you can drill down into various invocations of a function and even inspect its source code.

### View the logs for an extension

If you're trying to debug your project, or submit a bug report to Firebase, it's useful to view logs of the functions running in your project.

In the*Logs* tab of your[Functions dashboard](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/functions/list), use the filter at the top of the page to select the functions created by your extension.

## Update an installed extension instance to the latest version

You can update an installed instance of an extension to its latest released version. You might want to update an installed instance because the instance is already actively running or set up in your testing, project, or app workflow.
| **Note:** If you installed an extension using an auto-generated SDK, use the same method to upgrade it, and not the console or CLI.

When you update an instance, all the instance's extension-specific resources and logic is overwritten to use the new version's source code and files. The extension's instance ID and service account will not change.

During the update process, you'll be notified of any changes for the new version, and you'll be able to specify values for any new parameters.

1. Go to your[Firebase Extensionsdashboard](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/extensions/), then on the installed extension instance's card, click**Manage**.

2. In the upper-right corner, click**Update extension**.

   If the extension doesn't have an available new version, the details page won't have an update button.
3. Review what's new in the update and configure the extension (if needed).

4. Click**Update extension**.

## Reconfigure an installed extension instance

You can change the values of the user-configured parameters for an installed extension instance. These new values will be used in any*future*triggers of the instance, but all previous artifacts or structural elements created by the extension (like stored images or existing storage buckets) will not be changed.
| **Note:** If you installed an extension using an auto-generated SDK, use the same method to reconfigure it, and not the console or CLI.

1. Go to your[Firebase Extensionsdashboard](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/extensions/), then on the installed extension instance's card, click**Manage**.

2. In the upper-right corner, click**Reconfigure extension**.

3. Follow the on-screen instructions to reconfigure the parameter values for your extension.

4. Click**Save**.

| **Note:** Saving changes for an extension may take the system 3-5 minutes.

## Uninstall an extension instance

You can uninstall an instance of an extension from your Firebase project. This action deletes the[service account](https://firebase.google.com/docs/extensions/permissions-granted-to-extension#uninstall-extension)and all the[resources](https://firebase.google.com/docs/extensions/overview-use-extensions#resources)(like a set of functions) that Firebase created specifically for that instance of the extension. However, the following are***not***deleted:

- Any artifacts created by the extension (like stored images).

- Any other resources in your project, like a database instance orCloud Storagebucket. Even if the extension interacted with these other resources, they are not*extension-specific*, so they aren't deleted if the extension is uninstalled.

Here's how to uninstall an extension:

1. Go to your[Firebase Extensionsdashboard](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/extensions/), then on the installed extension instance's card, click**Manage**.

2. At the bottom of the screen, click**Uninstall extension**.

3. Review what will be deleted, then click**Uninstall extension**to confirm the deletion.

| **Note:** If you installed the extension using the autogenerated SDK, be sure to also remove the instance configuration from your Cloud Functions code.