---
page_title: "Resource: fivetran_destination_certificates"
---

# Resource: fivetran_destination_certificates

This resource allows you to manage list of approved SSH fingerprints for a particular destination.

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "fivetran_destination_certificates" "my_destination_approved_certificates" {
    destination_id = fivetran_destination.my_destination.id
    
    certificate {
        hash = "jhgfJfgrI6yy..."
        encoded_cert = "encoded_cert"
    }

    certificate {
        hash = "eUtPirI6yytWe..."
        encoded_cert = "encoded_cert"
    }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `destination_id` (String) The unique identifier for the target destination within the Fivetran system.

### Optional

- `certificate` (Block Set) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--certificate))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The unique identifier for the resource. Equal to target destination id.

<a id="nestedblock--certificate"></a>

### Nested Schema for `certificate`

Required:

- `encoded_cert` (String, Sensitive) Base64 encoded certificate.
- `hash` (String) Hash of the certificate.

Read-Only:

- `name` (String) Certificate name.
- `public_key` (String) The SSH public key.
- `sha1` (String) Certificate sha1.
- `sha256` (String) Certificate sha256.
- `type` (String) Type of the certificate.
- `validated_by` (String) User name who validated the certificate.
- `validated_date` (String) The date when certificate was approved.

## Import

1. To import an existing `fivetran_destination_certificates` resource into your Terraform state, you need to get **Destination Group ID** on the destination page in your Fivetran dashboard.

2. To retrieve existing destinations, use the [fivetran_destinations data source](/docs/data-sources/destinations).

3. Define an empty resource in your `.tf` configuration:

```hcl
resource "fivetran_destination_certificates" "my_imported_destination_certificates" {

}
```

1. Run the `terraform import` command:

```
terraform import fivetran_destination_certificates.my_imported_destination_certificates {your Destination Group ID}
```

1. Use the `terraform state show` command to get the values from the state:

```
terraform state show 'fivetran_destination_certificates.my_imported_destination_certificates'
```

1. Copy the values and paste them to your `.tf` configuration.
