# Source: https://coolify.io/docs/services/plausible.md

---
url: /docs/services/plausible.md
description: >-
  Deploy Plausible Analytics on Coolify for lightweight, cookieless,
  GDPR-compliant web analytics with privacy-first visitor insights.
---

::: warning SERVICE HIDDEN ON COOLIFY
This service is not available as a one-click deployment on Coolify due to legal (trademark) restrictions. To use it with Coolify, you’ll need to deploy it manually by following the installation steps below.
:::

## What is Plausible Analytics?

Plausible is intuitive, lightweight and open-source web analytics software. It uses no cookies and is fully compliant with GDPR, CCPA and PECR.

## How to deploy Plausible Analytics with Coolify?

Due to trademark issues, we can't provide a fully automated one-click Service installation for Plausible Analytics. But don't worry, it's still very easy to install.

## Installation

1. Add a New Resource and select the `Docker Compose Empty` application deployment type.
2. Copy the following [file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coollabsio/coolify/v4.x/templates/compose/plausible.yaml) into the input box (with the comments).
3. Click on the `Save` button.
4. Go to the `Plausible` service's settings page (`Settings` button on the right side).
5. Add your custom domain to the `Domains` input box (you can also edit the domains by clicking on the edit icon next to the autogenerated domain).
6. Click on the `Save` button.
7. Click on the `Deploy` button and wait for the deployment to finish.

## Links

* [The official website](https://plausible.io/)
* [GitHub](https://github.com/plausible/analytics)
