# Source: https://docs.sinch.com/support/glossary-status-page-components.md

# Glossary - Status Page Components

<table><thead><tr><th width="161.5" align="center">Field</th><th align="center">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="center"><strong>SMPP</strong></td><td align="center">Specific protocol made to exchange SMS messages, it permits a active connection with the SMPP servers, it is recommended to the clients that have 5 millions or more messages per month The instability in this component affects in general form the sending and receiving of messages trough your API SMPP.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>Web service API</strong></td><td align="center">This API permits that you automatize the sending messages requisitions, unique or in lot, and the recovery of the sending status trough consultations. She utilizes the HTTP protocol with TLS and accepts the GET methods, with the passage of parameters in the query string or POST with parameters in JSON The instability in this service affects in general form the sending and receiving of SMS trought the API.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>Web Interface</strong></td><td align="center">This component refers at your platform <a href="https://messaging.wavy.global">Messaging</a>. The instability in this service can affects the sending and receiving of SMS and Whatsapp messages trough our platform.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>Webhook DLR (delivery to handset)</strong></td><td align="center">The instability in this component directly affects the delivery to handset status in your Webhook.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>SMPP DLR (delivery to handset)</strong></td><td align="center">The instability in this component directly affects the delivery to handset status in your API SMPP.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>SMPP Callback (delivery to carrier)</strong></td><td align="center">The instability in this component directly affects the delivery to carrier status in your Webhook.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>Webhook Callback (delivery to carrier)</strong></td><td align="center">The instability in this component directly affects the delivery to handset status in your API SMPP.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>Carrier</strong></td><td align="center">The instability in the carrier is linked whit the service outage provided by the carrier, when this happens we can expect delays on the sending and in the receiving of messages, we inform the carrier about the delay and we stabilize our messages rows in our side, this instability and your resolution time can vary from carrier to carrier.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>Internal Queues MT</strong></td><td align="center">The instability in this integration is linked directly with the sending of messages trough Whatsapp, when this happens, we can expect delays in the delivery of that message, until the message row is gradually emptied.</td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>Internal Queues (MO)</strong></td><td align="center">The instability in this integration is linked directly with the receiving  of messages trough Whatsapp, when this happens, we can expect delays in the receiving of that message, until the message row is gradually emptied.</td></tr></tbody></table>
