# Source: https://docs.sinch.com/whatsapp/whatsapp-embedded-signup/potential-errors-during-the-embedded-signup-flow.md

# Potential Errors During the Embedded Signup Flow

In some situations, companies may not be able to send messages after completing the embedded signup flow. The following checklist helps to solve messaging problems:

1. Check that a valid payment method has been attached to the WhatsApp business account. Otherwise, sending message templates will fail.
2. Verify that the 30-day period of unverified trial experience has expired. If this has happened, the company will need to verify the phone number before you can send messages again. For more information, see Phone numbers.
3. Check that the trial experience has not already been granted to another phone number on the same WhatsApp business account. In this case, the number must go through the verification processes to be able to send messages.

### See also below for the most common list of possible errors and their solutions during the embedded registration flow.

<table><thead><tr><th width="252.76057268095758">Error</th><th width="221.52023692003954">Description</th><th>Solution</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><p></p><p><strong>An error occurred while processing this request. Please try again later.</strong></p></td><td>Business account creation could have failed due to various reasons, please contact Support for further assistance.</td><td><p>Use an active Facebook account or contact Support for resolution.</p><p></p></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>You have reached the limit for the number of Businesses you can create at this time.</strong></p><p></p></td><td><p>There is a limit to the number of Business Accounts that you can create.</p><p></p></td><td><p>Please use an existing Business Account.</p><p></p></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>Your Facebook account is too new to create a business account. Try again in an hour.</strong></p><p></p></td><td><p>New Facebook accounts have to wait for some time to create a Business Manager account.</p><p></p></td><td>Use an existing active Facebook account or wait for a few hours before using your new account. The new Facebook account can be actively used during the wait period.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>We limit how often you can post, comment or do other things in a given amount of time in order to help protect the community from spam. You can try again later.</strong></td><td><p>Your Facebook account was been flagged because of suspicious behavior.</p><p></p></td><td><p>Use an existing, active Facebook account with no prior issues.</p><p></p></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>You’re no longer allowed to use Facebook Products to advertise. You can’t run ads, manage advertising assets or create new ad or business accounts.</strong></p><p></p></td><td><p>You are unable to create new Business Manager accounts due to previous suspicious behavior.</p><p></p></td><td><p>Use an existing, active Facebook account with no prior issues.</p><p></p></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>The name you chose for your business isn’t valid. Consider using xxx.</strong></p><p></p></td><td><p>Invalid business name.</p><p></p></td><td>Add a valid name that matches the name of your business.</td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>A user can only create one business user at a time</strong></p><p></p></td><td><p>You can only create a single Business Account within a given time period.</p><p></p></td><td><p>Use an existing Business Account to onboard.</p><p></p></td></tr></tbody></table>
