# Source: https://docs.klarna.com/resources/legal-and-compliance/more-solutions-guidelines/tokenization-shopping-solutions.md

# Tokenization of Shopping Solutions

Upon utilizing any of the tokenizable functionalities within Klarna's Shopping Solutions, including but not limited to Payment Tokens, Access Tokens and Customer Tokens, or comparable features, the Merchant acknowledges and agrees that the following will apply: **Payment Tokens** are transactions of orders under use of Klarna’s Shopping Solutions for which payments have been pre-authorized by the Customer and for which the goods or services are, to be delivered or performed instantly or in the future by the Merchant without having to obtain approval from the Customer each time or require the customer to interact with Klarna’s Shopping Solutions. If the merchant offers subscription services Merchant agrees that it will follow all applicable laws relating to subscriptions, including but not limited to cancellation requirements, renewal notice requirements and payment notification requirements. All recurring transactions are subject to approval and Klarna reserves the right to reject recurring transactions at its discretion. The Merchant agrees to indemnify Klarna for any third party claims, damages, and liabilities that may arise from Merchant’s failure to adhere to the requirements as set forth in this Payment Tokens section, herein. **Access Tokens** and **Customer Tokens** are Klarna authentication Tokens that allow merchants' customers to bypass any additional authentication process when utilizing the Shopping Solutions. The Merchant agrees that it will follow all applicable laws relating to usage, notifications and opt-in/out support. The Merchant assumes full responsibility and liability for any instances of **Merchant Account Takeovers** when employing any of the tokenizable functionalities within Klarna's Shopping Solutions, including, but not limited to, Recurring Payment Tokens, Access Tokens, Customer Tokens, or comparable features. A 'Merchant Account Takeover' is defined as the unauthorized access to a Customer's Merchant Account, wherein an unauthorized individual gains entry to the Customer's Merchant Account and can carry out unauthorized transactions, among other activities. In the event that Klarna suspects a Merchant Account Takeover, Klarna will inform the Merchant in writing, through the API, or by any other mutually agreed-upon means between the Parties. Klarna shall also guide the Customer to contact the Merchant's customer support. The Merchant shall undertake an investigation and address the matter in accordance with its established policies, procedures, and relevant agreements with the affected Customers. For the avoidance of doubt, Klarna has the right to retransfer any Claims where the above requirements are not fulfilled or where, as the case may be, the Merchant has failed to comply with the above terms.