# Source: https://docs.akeyless.io/docs/eks-dynamic-secret-producer.md

# Amazon EKS Dynamic Secrets

You can create a dynamic Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) secret to allow users to receive dynamic access tokens to an Amazon EKS cluster.

## Prerequisites

* An [Akeyless Gateway](https://docs.akeyless.io/docs/gateway-overview)

* AWS IAM principal (role or user)

To use a dynamic Amazon EKS secret, you need an AWS IAM principal (for example, a role or user) with the permissions to be given to users. That IAM principal will serve as the user for each individual connection, with access tokens that will last for 15 minutes.

The AWS IAM principal must be part of the `aws-auth` ConfigMap that is used for authorization to the Kubernetes cluster (learn more about [using the aws-auth ConfigMap](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/add-user-role.html)). The Kubernetes role to which the AWS IAM principal in the `aws-auth` ConfigMap is bound will be the same Kubernetes role that tokens generated by the Amazon EKS Dynamic Secret will get.

The AWS IAM principal must have at least the following ClusterRoleBinding in the underlying Kubernetes RBAC:

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: my-cluster-role-binding
subjects:
  - kind: Group
    name: my-group-name
    apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: system:auth-delegator
```

For more information about Kubernetes RBAC, see [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

## Create an Amazon EKS Dynamic Secret with the CLI

> ℹ️ **Note:**
>
> We recommend using Dynamic Secrets with [Targets](https://docs.akeyless.io/docs/kubernetes-targets#eks). While it saves time for multiple secret-level configurations by not requiring you to provide an [inline connection string](https://docs.akeyless.io/docs/eks-dynamic-secret-producer#inline-connection-strings) each time, it is also important for security streamlining. Using a target allows you to rotate credentials without breaking the credential chain for the objects connected to the server used, using inline will force you to go and change the credentials in each individual item instead of just the target.

To create an Amazon EKS Dynamic Secret with the CLI using an existing [Target](https://docs.akeyless.io/docs/kubernetes-targets#eks), run the following command:

```shell
akeyless dynamic-secret create eks \
--name <Dynamic Secret Name> \
--target-name <Target Name> \
--gateway-url 'https://<Your-Akeyless-GW-URL>:8000' \
--eks-assume-role <Role ARN>
```

Or using an inline connection string:

```shell
akeyless dynamic-secret create eks \
--name <Dynamic Secret Name> \
--gateway-url 'https://<Your-Akeyless-GW-URL>:8000' \
--eks-assume-role <Role ARN> \
--eks-access-key-id <IAM user Access Key ID> \
--eks-secret-access-key <IAM user secret Access Key> \
--eks-region <EKS cluster region> \
--eks-cluster-name <EKS cluster Name> \
--eks-cluster-endpoint <EKS Cluster endpoint URL> \
--eks-cluster-ca-cert <Base64-encoded EKS cluster CA certificate>
```

Where:

* `name`: A unique name of the dynamic secret. The name can include the path to the virtual folder where you want to create the new dynamic secret, using slash `/` separators. If the folder does not exist, it will be created together with the dynamic secret.

* `target-name`: A name of the target that enables connection to the Amazon EKS cluster. The name can include the path to the virtual folder where this target resides.

* `gateway-url`: Akeyless Gateway Configuration Manager URL (port `8000`).

* `eks-assume-role`: The role to assume when connecting to the Amazon EKS cluster with provided credentials.

> ℹ️ **Note:**
>
> The `eks-assume-role` parameter is required when the `aws-auth` ConfigMap is configured to allow the provided AWS IAM user to connect through the `mapRoles` key.
>
> For more information, see [the Amazon EKS guide on user roles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/add-user-role.html).

### Inline Connection String

If you don't have a configured [Amazon EKS Target](https://docs.akeyless.io/docs/kubernetes-targets#eks) yet, you can use the command with an inline connection string:

* `eks-access-key-id`: The access key ID of the AWS IAM user to be used to connect to the Amazon EKS target.

* `eks-secret-access-key`: The secret access key of the AWS IAM user.

* `eks-region`: The region in which the Amazon EKS cluster resides.

* `eks-cluster-name`: The name of the Amazon EKS cluster you want to connect to.

* `eks-cluster-endpoint`: Amazon EKS cluster endpoint URL.

* `eks-cluster-ca-cert`: Base64-encoded Amazon EKS cluster CA certificate.

You can find the complete list of parameters for this command in the [CLI Reference - Dynamic Secrets](https://docs.akeyless.io/docs/cli-reference-dynamic-secrets#eks) section.

## Use the Amazon EKS Dynamic Secret With the Akeyless CLI

If the Akeyless CLI is installed on the same host as the `kubectl`, you can define a `kubeconfig` file to automatically run the `get-dynamic-secret-value` command and fetch new access tokens as required.

You need to either download the `kubeconfig` file directly from the [Akeyless Console](https://console.akeyless.io/) by selecting the **Dynamic Secret** item and copying the file from the **Dynamic Secret Description**, or generate the file manually as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    certificate-authority-data: <base 64 encoding of the cluster's certificate>
    server: <cluster DNS/IP address>
  name: <cluster name>
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: <cluster name>
    user: <some user name>
  name: <cluster context name>
current-context: <cluster context name>
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
- name: <some user name>
  user:
    exec:
      apiVersion: client.authentication.k8s.io/v1alpha1
      args:
        - get-dynamic-secret-value
        - --name
        - <dynamic secret item name>
        - --profile
        - <some profile> 
      command: akeyless
      interactiveMode: IfAvailable
```

For every new Amazon EKS cluster, you must update the `kubeconfig` file accordingly.

When you run `kubectl`, the Akeyless `get-dynamic-secret-value` command will fetch a new access token for you.

For more information regarding `kubectl` and the `kubeconfig` file, see the [kubectl installation manual](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

## Use an Amazon EKS Dynamic Secret With the Akeyless CLI Running on a Remote Host

If the Akeyless CLI is installed on a different host as the `kubectl`, you can get a service account token from Akeyless separately, and then manually update the `kubeconfig` file that uses the token.

First, let's generate the `kubeconfig` file manually as described above, with the following change:

```yaml kubeconfig
users:
- name: <some user name>
  user:
    token: < Dynamic Secret Value goes here >
```

To get the Amazon EKS Dynamic Secret value with the CLI, you should run the following command:

```shell
akeyless dynamic-secret get-value --name <Path to the dynamic secret>
```

Then on the `kubeconfig` you need to replace the `<Dynamic Secret Value goes here >` with the response token exactly as you received it.

> ℹ️ **Note (Single `kubeconfig` Generation):**
>
> Akeyless supports generation of a single `kubeconfig` file. For more information see [here](https://docs.akeyless.io/docs/k8s-generic-dynamic-secrets#single-kubeconfig-generation)