# Source: https://recharts.github.io/en-US/api/YAxis/

### YAxis 

#### Parent Components 

YAxis consumes context provided by these components:

- [`<AreaChart />`](/en-US/api/AreaChart/)
- [`<BarChart />`](/en-US/api/BarChart/)
- [`<LineChart />`](/en-US/api/LineChart/)
- [`<ComposedChart />`](/en-US/api/ComposedChart/)
- [`<ScatterChart />`](/en-US/api/ScatterChart/)

#### Child Components 

YAxis provides context for these components:

- [`<Label />`](/en-US/api/Label/)

#### Properties 

- ::: 
  [[hide](#hide)][Boolean]

  If set true, the axis do not display in the chart.

  [DEFAULT: ]`false`
  :::

- ::: 
  [[dataKey](#dataKey)][String \| Number \| Function]*optional*

  The key of data displayed in the axis.
  :::

- ::: 
  [[yAxisId](#yAxisId)][String \| Number]

  The unique id of y-axis.

  [DEFAULT: ]`0`
  :::

- ::: 
  [[width](#width)][Number \| \'auto\']

  The width of the axis, which can be set by user. \'auto\' will attempt to resize the axis based on its content.

  [DEFAULT: ]`60`
  :::

- ::: 
  [[height](#height)][Number]

  The height of axis which is usually calculated internally.
  :::

- ::: 
  [[orientation](#orientation)][\'left\' \| \'right\']

  The orientation of axis.

  [DEFAULT: ]`"left"`
  :::

- ::: 
  [[type](#type)][\'number\' \| \'category\']

  The type of axis.

  [DEFAULT: ]`"number"`
  :::

- ::: 
  [[tickCount](#tickCount)][Number]

  The count of axis ticks. Not used if \'type\' is \'category\'.

  [DEFAULT: ]`5`
  :::

- ::::: 
  [[domain](#domain)][Array \| Function]*optional*

  Specify the domain of axis when the axis is a number axis. The length of domain should be 2, and we will validate the values in domain. And each element in the array can be a number, \'auto\', \'dataMin\', \'dataMax\', a string like \'dataMin - 20\', \'dataMax + 100\', or a function that accepts a single argument and returns a number. If any element of domain is set to be \'auto\', comprehensible scale ticks will be calculated, and the final domain of axis is generated by the ticks. If a function, receives \'\[dataMin, dataMax\]\', and must return a computed domain as \'\[min, max\]\'.

  ::: format
  FORMAT:

  ``` format-code
  <YAxis type="number" domain= />
  <YAxis type="number" domain= />
  <YAxis type="number" domain= />
  <YAxis type="number" domain= />
  <YAxis type="number" domain= />
  <YAxis type="number" domain= />
  <YAxis type="number" domain=} />
  <YAxis type="number" domain= allowDataOverflow />
  ```
  :::

  ::: examples
  Examples:

  - [Numeric XAxis with specified domain](/en-US/examples/VerticalLineChartWithSpecifiedDomain)
  :::
  :::::

- :::: 
  [[includeHidden](#includeHidden)][Boolean]*optional*

  Ensures that all datapoints within a chart contribute to its domain calculation, even when they are hidden

  [DEFAULT: ]`false`

  ::: format
  FORMAT:

  ``` format-code
  <YAxis type="number" includeHidden />
  ```
  :::
  ::::

- :::: 
  [[interval](#interval)][\"preserveStart\" \| \"preserveEnd\" \| \"preserveStartEnd\" \| \"equidistantPreserveStart\" \| Number]

  If set 0, all the ticks will be shown. If set preserveStart\", \"preserveEnd\" or \"preserveStartEnd\", the ticks which is to be shown or hidden will be calculated automatically.

  [DEFAULT: ]`"preserveEnd"`

  ::: examples
  Examples:

  - [the meaning of different intervals](/en-US/examples/LineChartAxisInterval)
  :::
  ::::

- ::::: 
  [[padding](#padding)][Object]

  Specify the padding of y-axis. It\'s similar to padding of XAxis.

  [DEFAULT: ]`""`

  ::: format
  FORMAT:

  ``` format-code
  <YAxis padding=} />
  <YAxis padding=} />
  <YAxis padding=} />
  ```
  :::

  ::: examples
  Examples:

  - [XAxis with non-zero padding](/en-US/examples/LineChartWithXAxisPadding)
  :::
  :::::

- ::: 
  [[minTickGap](#minTickGap)][Number]

  The minimum gap between two adjacent labels.

  [DEFAULT: ]`5`
  :::

- ::: 
  [[allowDecimals](#allowDecimals)][Boolean]

  Allow the ticks of YAxis to be decimals or not.

  [DEFAULT: ]`true`
  :::

- :::: 
  [[allowDataOverflow](#allowDataOverflow)][Boolean]

  When domain of the axis is specified and the type of the axis is \'number\', if allowDataOverflow is set to be false, the domain will be adjusted when the minimum value of data is smaller than domain\[0\] or the maximum value of data is greater than domain\[1\] so that the axis displays all data values. If set to true, graphic elements (line, area, bars) will be clipped to conform to the specified domain.

  [DEFAULT: ]`false`

  ::: format
  FORMAT:

  ``` format-code
  <YAxis type="number" domain= allowDataOverflow />
  ```
  :::
  ::::

- ::: 
  [[allowDuplicatedCategory](#allowDuplicatedCategory)][Boolean]

  Allow the axis has duplicated category or not when the type of axis is \"category\".

  [DEFAULT: ]`true`
  :::

- ::: 
  [[axisLine](#axisLine)][Boolean \| Object]

  If set false, no axis line will be drawn. If set a object, the option is the configuration of axis line.

  [DEFAULT: ]`true`
  :::

- ::: 
  [[tickLine](#tickLine)][Boolean \| Object]

  If set false, no axis tick lines will be drawn. If set a object, the option is the configuration of tick lines.

  [DEFAULT: ]`true`
  :::

- ::: 
  [[tickSize](#tickSize)][Number]

  The length of tick line.

  [DEFAULT: ]`6`
  :::

- ::: 
  [[tickFormatter](#tickFormatter)][Function]*optional*

  The formatter function of tick.
  :::

- ::: 
  [[ticks](#ticks)][Array]*optional*

  Set the values of axis ticks manually.
  :::

- :::: 
  [[tick](#tick)][Boolean \| Object \| ReactElement]*optional*

  If set false, no ticks will be drawn. If set a object, the option is the configuration of ticks. If set a React element, the option is the custom react element of drawing ticks.

  [DEFAULT: ]`true`

  ::: format
  FORMAT:

  ``` format-code
  <YAxis tick= />
  <YAxis tick=} />
  <YAxis tick= />
  ```
  :::
  ::::

- ::: 
  [[mirror](#mirror)][Boolean]

  If set true, flips ticks around the axis line, displaying the labels inside the chart instead of outside.

  [DEFAULT: ]`false`
  :::

- ::: 
  [[reversed](#reversed)][Boolean]

  Reverse the ticks or not.

  [DEFAULT: ]`false`
  :::

- ::::: 
  [[label](#label)][String \| Number \| ReactElement \| Object]*optional*

  If set a string or a number, default label will be drawn, and the option is content. If set a React element, the option is the custom react element of drawing label. If an object, the option is the props of a new Label instance.

  ::: format
  FORMAT:

  ``` format-code
  <YAxis label="Height" />
  <YAxis label= />
  <YAxis label=} />
  ```
  :::

  ::: examples
  Examples:

  - [A composed chart with axis labels](/en-US/examples/ComposedChartWithAxisLabels)
  :::
  :::::

- :::: 
  [[scale](#scale)][\'auto\' \| \'linear\' \| \'pow\' \| \'sqrt\' \| \'log\' \| \'identity\' \| \'time\' \| \'band\' \| \'point\' \| \'ordinal\' \| \'quantile\' \| \'quantize\' \| \'utc\' \| \'sequential\' \| \'threshold\' \| Function]

  If \'auto\' set, the scale function is decided by the type of chart, and the props type.

  [DEFAULT: ]`"auto"`

  ::: format
  FORMAT:

  ``` format-code
  <YAxis scale="log" />

  import  from 'd3-scale';
  const scale = scaleLog().base(Math.E);

  ...
    <YAxis scale= />
  ...
  ```
  :::
  ::::

- ::: 
  [[unit](#unit)][String \| Number]*optional*

  The unit of data displayed in the axis. This option will be used to represent an index unit in a scatter chart.
  :::

- ::: 
  [[name](#name)][String \| Number]*optional*

  The name of data displayed in the axis. This option will be used to represent an index in a scatter chart.
  :::

- ::: 
  [[onClick](#onClick)][Function]*optional*

  The customized event handler of click on the ticks of this axis
  :::

- ::: 
  [[onMouseDown](#onMouseDown)][Function]*optional*

  The customized event handler of mousedown on the the ticks of this axis
  :::

- ::: 
  [[onMouseUp](#onMouseUp)][Function]*optional*

  The customized event handler of mouseup on the ticks of this axis
  :::

- ::: 
  [[onMouseMove](#onMouseMove)][Function]*optional*

  The customized event handler of mousemove on the ticks of this axis
  :::

- ::: 
  [[onMouseOver](#onMouseOver)][Function]*optional*

  The customized event handler of mouseover on the ticks of this axis
  :::

- ::: 
  [[onMouseOut](#onMouseOut)][Function]*optional*

  The customized event handler of mouseout on the ticks of this axis
  :::

- ::: 
  [[onMouseEnter](#onMouseEnter)][Function]*optional*

  The customized event handler of mouseenter on the ticks of this axis
  :::

- ::: 
  [[onMouseLeave](#onMouseLeave)][Function]*optional*

  The customized event handler of mouseleave on the ticks of this axis
  :::

- ::: 
  [[tickMargin](#tickMargin)][Number]*optional*

  The margin between tick line and tick.
  :::