---
title: Choose result format
---
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

import GxData from '../../_core_components/_data.jsx';

import PrereqPython from '../../_core_components/prerequisites/_python_installation.md'
import PrereqGx from '../../_core_components/prerequisites/_gx_installation.md'
import PrereqDataContext from '../../_core_components/prerequisites/_preconfigured_data_context.md'
import PrereqValidationDefinition from '../../_core_components/prerequisites/_validation_definition.md'

import BasicResultFormat from './_BASIC.md';
import BooleanOnlyResultFormat from './_BOOLEAN_ONLY.md';
import CompleteResultFormat from './_COMPLETE.md';
import SummaryResultFormat from './_SUMMARY.md';

import ResultFormatKeyReferenceTable from './_optional_key_reference_table.md';
import ResultOutputReferenceTable from './_result_output_reference_table.md';
import ResultVerbosityReferenceTable from './_result_verbosity_reference_table.md';

import AdditionalSettingsBasic from './_additional_settings/_BASIC.md';
import AdditionalSettingsSummary from './_additional_settings/_SUMMARY.md';
import AdditionalSettingsComplete from './_additional_settings/_COMPLETE.md';

When you validate data with GX Core you can set the level of detail returned in your Validation Results by specifying a value for the optional `result_format` parameter.  These settings will be applied to the results returned by each validated Expectation.

Typical use cases for customizing Result Format settings include summarizing values that cause Expectations to fail during data exploration, retrieving failed rows to facilitate cleaning data, or excluding excess Validation Result data in published Data Docs.

## Define a Result Format configuration

The `result_format` parameter takes in a dictionary of configuration settings.

1. Create a dictionary and set a base format for returned Validation Results.

   The base format of your Validation Results can be set as the value of the key `"result_format"` in your Result Format dictionary.  In order from least to most detail, the valid values for the `"result_format"` key are:

   - `"BOOLEAN_ONLY"`
   - `"BASIC"`
   - `"SUMMARY"`
   - `"COMPLETE"`.

   The default for Validation Results generated by Expectations is `"SUMMARY"`.

   Select a value below to see example code for that Result Format and what information is returned at that level:

   <Tabs queryString="result_format_string" groupId="result_format_string" defaultValue='basic'>

   <TabItem value="boolean" label='"BOOLEAN_ONLY"'>
      <BooleanOnlyResultFormat/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="basic" label='"BASIC"'>
      <BasicResultFormat/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="summary" label='"SUMMARY"'>
      <SummaryResultFormat/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="complete" label='"COMPLETE"'>
      <CompleteResultFormat/>
   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

2. Optional. Specify configurations for additional settings available to the base `result_format`.

   Once you have defined the base configuration in your `result_format` key, you can further tailor your Validation Results by defining additional key/value pairs in your Result Format dictionary.

   Reference the table below for valid keys and how they influence the generated Validation Results:

   <Tabs queryString="result_format_string" groupId="result_format_string" defaultValue='basic'>

   <TabItem value="boolean" label='"BOOLEAN_ONLY"'>
   | Dictionary key                    | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
   |-----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
   | `"return_unexpected_index_query"` | Return a query (or a set of indices) that allows you to retrieve the full set of unexpected results as well as the values of any identifying columns specified in `"unexpected_index_column_names"`. (Default is `False`). |
   | `"unexpected_index_column_names"` | Takes a list to define the column(s) that will be used to identify unexpected results returned. For example, primary key (PK) column(s) or other columns with unique identifiers.                                          |
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="basic" label='"BASIC"'>
      <AdditionalSettingsBasic/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="summary" label='"SUMMARY"'>
      <AdditionalSettingsSummary/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="complete" label='"COMPLETE"'>
      <AdditionalSettingsComplete/>
   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

3. Apply the Result Format to a Checkpoint, Validation Definition, or Batch.

   You can define a persisting Result Format configuration by passing it in as the `result_format` parameter when a Checkpoint is created.  The Result Format will be applied every time the Checkpoint is run.  For more information on creating a Checkpoint see [Create a Checkpoint with Actions](/core/trigger_actions_based_on_results/create_a_checkpoint_with_actions.md).

   You can also pass a `result_format` configuration at runtime to the `.run(...)` method of a Validation Definition or to the `.validate(...)` method of a Batch.  This `result_format` configuration does not persist with the Validation Definition or Batch and will apply to only the current execution of the `.run(...)` or `.validate(...)` method.  For more information see [Run a Validation Definition](/core/run_validations/run_a_validation_definition.md) or [Test an Expectation](/docs/core/define_expectations/test_an_expectation.md).

## Validation Results reference tables

<Tabs queryString="results" groupId="results" defaultValue='fields'>

   <TabItem value="fields" label="Information in result fields">
      <ResultOutputReferenceTable/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="format" label="Result fields by base format">
      <ResultVerbosityReferenceTable/>
   </TabItem>

   <TabItem value="result_format_keys" label="Result Format keys">
      <ResultFormatKeyReferenceTable/>
   </TabItem>

</Tabs>
