# luigi.contrib.mysqldb

Classes

`CopyToTable`(*args, **kwargs)

Template task for inserting a data set into MySQL

`MySqlTarget`(host, database, user, password, ...)

Target for a resource in MySql.

class luigi.contrib.mysqldb.MySqlTarget(*host*, *database*, *user*, *password*, *table*, *update_id*, ***cnx_kwargs*)

Target for a resource in MySql.

Initializes a MySqlTarget instance.

Parameters:

- 

**host** (*str*) – MySql server address. Possibly a host:port string.

- 

**database** (*str*) – database name.

- 

**user** (*str*) – database user

- 

**password** (*str*) – password for specified user.

- 

**update_id** (*str*) – an identifier for this data set.

- 

**cnx_kwargs** – optional params for mysql connector constructor.
See https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-python/en/connector-python-connectargs.html.

marker_table = 'table_updates'

touch(*connection=None*)

Mark this update as complete.

IMPORTANT, If the marker table doesn’t exist,
the connection transaction will be aborted and the connection reset.
Then the marker table will be created.

exists(*connection=None*)

Returns `True` if the `Target` exists and `False` otherwise.

connect(*autocommit=False*)

create_marker_table()

Create marker table if it doesn’t exist.

Using a separate connection since the transaction might have to be reset.

class luigi.contrib.mysqldb.CopyToTable(**args*, ***kwargs*)

Template task for inserting a data set into MySQL

Usage:
Subclass and override the required host, database, user,
password, table and columns attributes.

To customize how to access data from an input task, override the rows method
with a generator that yields each row as a tuple with fields ordered according to columns.

rows()

Return/yield tuples or lists corresponding to each row to be inserted.

output()

Returns a MySqlTarget representing the inserted dataset.

Normally you don’t override this.

copy(*cursor*, *file=None*)

run()

Inserts data generated by rows() into target table.

If the target table doesn’t exist, self.create_table will be called to attempt to create the table.

Normally you don’t want to override this.

property bulk_size