# luigi.target

The abstract `Target` class.
It is a central concept of Luigi and represents the state of the workflow.

Classes

`AtomicLocalFile`(path)

Abstract class to create a Target that creates a temporary file in the local filesystem before moving it to its final destination.

`FileSystem`()

FileSystem abstraction used in conjunction with `FileSystemTarget`.

`FileSystemTarget`(path)

Base class for FileSystem Targets like `LocalTarget` and `HdfsTarget`.

`Target`()

A Target is a resource generated by a `Task`.

Exceptions

`FileAlreadyExists`

Raised when a file system operation can't be performed because a directory exists but is required to not exist.

`FileSystemException`

Base class for generic file system exceptions.

`MissingParentDirectory`

Raised when a parent directory doesn't exist.

`NotADirectory`

Raised when a file system operation can't be performed because an expected directory is actually a file.

class luigi.target.Target

A Target is a resource generated by a `Task`.

For example, a Target might correspond to a file in HDFS or data in a database. The Target
interface defines one method that must be overridden: `exists()`, which signifies if the
Target has been created or not.

Typically, a `Task` will define one or more Targets as output, and the Task
is considered complete if and only if each of its output Targets exist.

abstractmethod exists()

Returns `True` if the `Target` exists and `False` otherwise.

exception luigi.target.FileSystemException

Base class for generic file system exceptions.

exception luigi.target.FileAlreadyExists

Raised when a file system operation can’t be performed because
a directory exists but is required to not exist.

exception luigi.target.MissingParentDirectory

Raised when a parent directory doesn’t exist.
(Imagine mkdir without -p)

exception luigi.target.NotADirectory

Raised when a file system operation can’t be performed because
an expected directory is actually a file.

class luigi.target.FileSystem

FileSystem abstraction used in conjunction with `FileSystemTarget`.

Typically, a FileSystem is associated with instances of a `FileSystemTarget`. The
instances of the `FileSystemTarget` will delegate methods such as
`FileSystemTarget.exists()` and `FileSystemTarget.remove()` to the FileSystem.

Methods of FileSystem raise `FileSystemException` if there is a problem completing the
operation.

abstractmethod exists(*path*)

Return `True` if file or directory at `path` exist, `False` otherwise

Parameters:

**path** (*str*) – a path within the FileSystem to check for existence.

abstractmethod remove(*path*, *recursive=True*, *skip_trash=True*)

Remove file or directory at location `path`

Parameters:

- 

**path** (*str*) – a path within the FileSystem to remove.

- 

**recursive** (*bool*) – if the path is a directory, recursively remove the directory and all
of its descendants. Defaults to `True`.

mkdir(*path*, *parents=True*, *raise_if_exists=False*)

Create directory at location `path`

Creates the directory at `path` and implicitly create parent
directories if they do not already exist.

Parameters:

- 

**path** (*str*) – a path within the FileSystem to create as a directory.

- 

**parents** (*bool*) – Create parent directories when necessary. When
parents=False and the parent directory doesn’t
exist, raise luigi.target.MissingParentDirectory

- 

**raise_if_exists** (*bool*) – raise luigi.target.FileAlreadyExists if
the folder already exists.

isdir(*path*)

Return `True` if the location at `path` is a directory. If not, return `False`.

Parameters:

**path** (*str*) – a path within the FileSystem to check as a directory.

*Note*: This method is optional, not all FileSystem subclasses implements it.

listdir(*path*)

Return a list of files rooted in path.

This returns an iterable of the files rooted at `path`. This is intended to be a
recursive listing.

Parameters:

**path** (*str*) – a path within the FileSystem to list.

*Note*: This method is optional, not all FileSystem subclasses implements it.

move(*path*, *dest*)

Move a file, as one would expect.

rename_dont_move(*path*, *dest*)

Potentially rename `path` to `dest`, but don’t move it into the
`dest` folder (if it is a folder).  This relates to Atomic Writes Problem.

This method has a reasonable but not bullet proof default
implementation.  It will just do `move()` if the file doesn’t
`exists()` already.

rename(**args*, ***kwargs*)

Alias for `move()`

copy(*path*, *dest*)

Copy a file or a directory with contents.
Currently, LocalFileSystem and MockFileSystem support only single file
copying but S3Client copies either a file or a directory as required.

class luigi.target.FileSystemTarget(*path*)

Base class for FileSystem Targets like `LocalTarget` and `HdfsTarget`.

A FileSystemTarget has an associated `FileSystem` to which certain operations can be
delegated. By default, `exists()` and `remove()` are delegated to the
`FileSystem`, which is determined by the `fs` property.

Methods of FileSystemTarget raise `FileSystemException` if there is a problem
completing the operation.

Usage:

```
target = FileSystemTarget('~/some_file.txt')
target = FileSystemTarget(pathlib.Path('~') / 'some_file.txt')
target.exists()  # False

```