# Source: https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html

Title: Guide to the Plugin Documentation Standard – Maven

URL Source: https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html

Markdown Content:
[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html)
Introduction
------------

[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html)
Where did the standard come from?[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html#where-did-the-standard-come-from)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The plugin documentation standard was created to address frequent complaints about the lack of documentation, specifically on the Maven plugins. The standard was based on the suggestions made on the Maven dev mailing list with some refinements. It is a community consensus of the basic documentation a Maven plugin should have.

[Maven Documentation Checker Plugin](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-docck-plugin/) (aka. DocCK) was created at that time to help check plugin documentation, but it is now unmaintained.

[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html)
Why do we need a documentation standard?[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html#why-do-we-need-a-documentation-standard)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The standard is not a set of rules but a guide to help plugin developers document their plugins better, for the benefit of the users of the plugin. The standard also reminds plugin developers of important details that need to be documented to help speed up the adoption of the plugin.

[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html)
Generated Documentation[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html#generated-documentation)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It is recommended that you let Maven generate the basic information for the plugin to make sure that that the basic information is always accurate and synchronized with the plugin implementation.

Documentation is generated by running

mvn site
Like any Maven project, this will generate a site based on the information in the POM used by [Maven Project Info Reports Plugin](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-project-info-reports-plugin/), `src/site` and other reporting plugins configured in the POM (like javadoc, jxr, or any other classical project report plugin).

In addition, the most important additional reporting plugin for a plugin is the [Maven Plugin Report Plugin](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-plugin-report-plugin/), which will generate the **documentation for each plugin goal** based on the Mojo annotations. But in order for the generated site to be usable, the required information should be available to the Maven Site Plugin.

[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html)
POM Elements[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html#pom-elements)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Like any Maven project, Maven extracts the information from the POM to let [Maven Project Info Reports Plugin](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-project-info-reports-plugin/) generate the pages under ["Project Information"](https://maven.apache.org/project-info.html). The first step in good documentation is to have accurate and visible basic project information. Maven can provide this for the plugin as long as the information in the POM is complete, descriptive, and accurate.

[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html)
### Required Elements[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html#required-elements)

Minimum elements for a valid POM:

*   `<modelVersion>` - POM model version, currently 4.0.0
*   `<groupId>` - the package name
*   `<artifactId>` - artifact name
*   `<packaging>` - type of artifact produced by the POM
*   `<version>` - the plugin version

[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html)
### Optional Elements[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html#optional-elements)

These might be optional elements in a valid POM but they are important basic project information required by the users to effectively use the plugin:

*   `<name>` - plugin's name, _Maven NNN Plugin_ for plugins hosted at the Maven project or _NNN Maven Plugin_ for all others
*   `<description>` - project description, an overview of what the plugin can do
*   `<url>` - the site of the plugin, normally _maven.apache.org_ or _org.mojohaus_
*   `<prerequisites>` - the minimum version of Maven required to use this plugin
*   `<issueManagement>` - describes the system used for reporting problems and modification requests
*   `<inceptionYear>` - year the plugin was first created
*   `<mailingLists>` - lists where other users or the developers can be contacted for help and discussions
*   `<licenses>` - plugin license
*   `<scm>` - the source code management configuration - a plugin without this would raise suspicion, might not be OSS
*   `<organization>` - the organization maintaining the plugin, just in case we need someone to blame

[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html)
Plugin Goals List and Configuration Parameters for each Goal[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html#plugin-goals-list-and-configuration-parameters-for-each-goal)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The [Maven Plugin Report Plugin](https://maven.apache.org/plugin-tools/maven-plugin-report-plugin/) is responsible for generating the ["Plugin Documentation" `plugin-info.html`](https://maven.apache.org/plugin-tools/maven-plugin-report-plugin/plugin-info.html) page and one `[goal]-mojo.html` page for each goal.

It needs to be added to the `<reporting>` section, unless it is already inherited from a parent POM:

1.   `<project>`
2.   `[...]`
3.   `<reporting>`
4.   `<plugins>`
5.   `<plugin>`
6.   `<groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>`
7.   `<artifactId>maven-plugin-report-plugin</artifactId>`
8.   `<version>3.15.2</version>`
9.   `</plugin>`
10.   `</plugins>`
11.   `</reporting>`
12.   `[...]`
13.   `</project>`

The comments, annotations and plugin goals parameter names are extracted from the plugin source and rendered in the "Plugin Documentation" page. In order for the generated site to be useful, here are some guidelines for documenting your plugin.

*   All `@Parameter` fields should have a descriptive comment, informative enough that a regular user can understand. 
    1.   `[...]`
    2.   `/**`
    3.   `* Put something informative here that a regular user can understand.`
    4.   `*/`
    5.   `@Parameter`
    6.   `private boolean someparameter;`
    7.   `[...]`

*   If a parameter is not just a simple Java type or a list of simple types, but a specific additional class, give a sample XML snippet showing the structure of objects that can be configured. 
    1.   `[...]`
    2.   `/**`
    3.   `* A complex configuration`
    4.   `* <pre>`
    5.   `* &lt;complexparameter&gt;`
    6.   `*   &lt;field1&gt;field 1 value&lt;/field1&gt;`
    7.   `*   [...]`
    8.   `* &lt;/complexparameter&gt`
    9.   `* </pre>`
    10.   `*/`
    11.   `@Parameter`
    12.   `private MyComplexObject complexparameter;`
    13.   `[...]`

The class does not need any specific annotation. `@Parameter` on the `Mojo` field is sufficient to inject a bean instance created from XML configuration.

See, for example, [`requirementsHistories` parameter documentation](https://maven.apache.org/plugin-tools/maven-plugin-report-plugin/report-mojo.html#requirementsHistories) rendered from [plugin source code](https://github.com/apache/maven-plugin-tools/blob/maven-plugin-tools-3.15.1/maven-plugin-report-plugin/src/main/java/org/apache/maven/plugin/plugin/report/PluginReport.java#L93) and [`RequirementsHistory`](https://github.com/apache/maven-plugin-tools/blob/maven-plugin-tools-3.15.1/maven-plugin-report-plugin/src/main/java/org/apache/maven/plugin/plugin/report/RequirementsHistory.java) class,

*   The class level comment should explain what the goal does. 
    1.   `[...]`
    2.   `/**`
    3.   `* Everything here will show up on the top of the generated plugin info page.`
    4.   `*/`
    5.   `@Mojo(name = "somegoal", defaultPhase = LifecyclePhase.COMPILE)`
    6.   `public class ExampleMojo`
    7.   `extends AbstractWarMojo`
    8.   `{`
    9.   `public void execute()`
    10.   `throws MojoExecutionException, MojoFailureException`
    11.   `{`
    12.   `[...]`

*   The `@Component` and `readonly` parameters are not required to have any comments, but it's still a good practice to provide them.

[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html)
Site Organization [](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html#site-organization)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Visibility of the information is also crucial. Uniform navigation links greatly improve the visibility of the documentation. The index page can help emphasize important sections and pages of the plugin documentation.

[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html)
### Site Descriptor [](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html#site-descriptor)

The [site descriptor](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-site-plugin/examples/sitedescriptor.html) describes the navigation links and the layout of the page. It can be found in `src/site/site.xml`.

You must define a [skin](https://maven.apache.org/skins/) if you are using a site descriptor. No default skin is applied automatically.

Below is the suggested site descriptor template (with maven-fluido-skin).

1.   `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`
2.   `<project>`
3.   `<skin>`
4.   `<groupId>org.apache.maven.skins</groupId>`
5.   `<artifactId>maven-fluido-skin</artifactId>`
6.   `<version>2.1.0</version>`
7.   `</skin>`

9.   `<body>`
10.   `<menu name="Overview">`
11.   `<item name="Introduction" href="index.html"/>`
12.   `<item name="Goals" href="plugin-info.html"/>`
13.   `<item name="Usage" href="usage.html"/>`
14.   `<item name="FAQ" href="faq.html"/>`
15.   `</menu>`

17.   `<menu name="Examples">`
18.   `<item name="description1" href="examples/example-one.html"/>`
19.   `<item name="description2" href="examples/example-two.html"/>`
20.   `</menu>`
21.   `</body>`
22.   `</project>`

[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html)
#### Navigation Links[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html#navigation-links)

*   Introduction 
The introduction is the front page of the plugin documentation. This is a good place to put any section and pages that need to be emphasized. The generated plugin parameter configuration should be linked here. Below is the suggested `src/site/apt/index.apt` template:

 ------
 Introduction
 ------
 Author
 ------
 YYYY-MM-DD
 ------

Plugin Name

  Plugin introduction, description, and other relevant information.

* Goals Overview

  General information about the goals.

  * {{{<goal>.html}prefix:goal}} short description for this plugin goal.

* Usage

  General instructions for using the Plugin Name can be found on the {{{usage.html}usage page}}. Some more
  specific use cases are described in the examples given below. Last but not least, users occasionally contribute
  additional examples, tips or errata to the plugin's wiki page.

  If you have questions regarding the plugin, consult the {{{faq.html}FAQ}} and feel
  free to contact the {{{mailing-lists.html}user mailing list}}. Posts to the mailing list are archived and might
  already contain the answer to your question. Hence, it is also worth browsing/searching
  the {{{mailing-lists.html}mail archive}}.

  If you think the plugin is missing a feature or has a defect, you can file a feature request or bug report in the
  {{{issue-management.html}issue management system}}. When creating a new issue, please provide a comprehensive description of your
  concern. Especially for fixing bugs, it is crucial that the developers can reproduce your problem. For this reason,
  entire debug logs, POMs or most preferably little demo projects attached to the issue are very much appreciated.
  Of course, patches are welcome, too. Contributors can check out the project from our
  {{{scm.html}source repository}} and will find supplementary information in the
  {{{/guides/development/guide-helping.html}guide to helping with Maven}}. 

* Examples

  To help you understand some usages of the Plugin Name,
  you can take a look at the following examples:

  * {{{./examples/example-one.html}Example Description One}}

  * {{{./examples/example-two.html}Example Description Two}}
*   Goals 
`plugin-info.html` is generated by the Maven Plugin Report Plugin. Until the Maven Site Plugin is updated it would be better to pull it out to the main menu for greater visibility. This contains the goals and their descriptions with a link to the configuration parameters. The information is based on the comments and annotations of the plugin.

*   Usage (this was previously called Howto) 
The usage page describes the the basic use cases for the plugin goals which includes sample POM configurations and explanation of how the goals work.

*   FAQ 
A well documented project always collates frequently asked questions which are usually located in `src/site/fml/faq.fml`. The example below provides a template for your FAQ:

    1.   `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`
    2.   `<faqs id="FAQ" title="Frequently Asked Questions">`
    3.   `<part id="General">`
    4.   `<faq id="question">`
    5.   `<question>Question?</question>`
    6.   `<answer>`
    7.   `<p>`
    8.   `Answer`
    9.   `</p>`
    10.   `</answer>`
    11.   `</faq>`
    12.   `</part>`
    13.   `</faqs>`

*   Examples 
Advanced configurations and examples not covered in the usage page are located here. Advanced users who want to maximize the use of a plugin can check the items here. Tips on how to use the plugin effectively are also a good thing to put here.

For examples of items under "Examples" check these plugin sites:

    *   [Maven Javadoc Plugin Examples](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-javadoc-plugin/)
    *   [Maven War Plugin Examples](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-war-plugin/)

[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html)
Recommended Configured Reports[](https://maven.apache.org/guides/development/guide-plugin-documentation.html#recommended-configured-reports)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are 2 recommended report plugins to enhance the plugin documentation, Javadoc and JXR.

*   Maven Javadoc Plugin 
Javadocs provide documentation that makes it easier for developers to know how to use a particular class. Instead of reading and understanding the actual source code, the developer can use the Javadocs instead to lookup the class attributes and methods.

To enable javadoc for your plugin add the following to your `pom.xml`

    1.   `<project>`
    2.   `[...]`
    3.   `<build>`
    4.   `[...]`
    5.   `</build>`
    6.   `<reporting>`
    7.   `<plugins>`
    8.   `<plugin>`
    9.   `<groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>`
    10.   `<artifactId>maven-javadoc-plugin</artifactId>`
    11.   `<version>3.12.0</version>`
    12.   `<configuration>`
    13.   `<minmemory>128m</minmemory>`
    14.   `<maxmemory>512</maxmemory>`
    15.   `...`
    16.   `</configuration>`
    17.   `</plugin>`
    18.   `</plugins>`
    19.   `[...]`
    20.   `</reporting>`
    21.   `[...]`
    22.   `</project>`

Check the documentation about the plugin's [`javadoc:javadoc`](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-javadoc-plugin/javadoc-mojo.html) goal for the advanced configurations.

*   Maven JXR Plugin 
The Maven JXR Plugin generates a cross-reference of the project sources. The generated cross-references are also linked to the corresponding javadoc if javadoc is generated. The cross-reference is great for those who want to better understand the inner workings of the plugin.

To enable source code cross-references, add the following to your `pom.xml`

    1.   `<project>`
    2.   `[...]`
    3.   `<build>`
    4.   `[...]`
    5.   `</build>`
    6.   `<reporting>`
    7.   `<plugins>`
    8.   `<plugin>`
    9.   `<groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>`
    10.   `<artifactId>maven-jxr-plugin</artifactId>`
    11.   `<version>3.3.1</version>`
    12.   `</plugin>`
    13.   `</plugins>`
    14.   `</reporting>`
    15.   `[...]`
    16.   `</project>`

Check the [JXR configuration page](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-jxr-plugin/jxr-mojo.html) for the possible configuration parameters.
