# Source: https://docs.enate.net/enate-help/implementation/enate-academy-training-courses.md

# Enate Academy Training Courses

The following courses are available from [<mark style="color:blue;">**Enate Academy**</mark>](https://www.enate.academy), Enate's online training platform:

<table><thead><tr><th width="160">Course</th><th width="335">Content</th><th width="107">Duration</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Work Manager for Team Members</td><td>Operations features available within Work Manager – managing Tickets, Cases &#x26; Actions</td><td>4 hrs</td></tr><tr><td>Work Manager for Team Leaders</td><td>Team Leaders-specific activities within Work Manager – building teams, reassigning work</td><td>1 hr</td></tr><tr><td>Level 1 Enate Configuration</td><td>How to use Enate Builder to create Ticket &#x26; Case process solutions, plus supporting activities such as user management, custom field creation and permissions.</td><td>4-6 hrs</td></tr><tr><td>Email Mailbox Configuration</td><td>Connect up your mailboxes to consume incoming emails to create Tickets &#x26; Cases, plus handle outgoing email</td><td>2 hrs</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Course Sections

The content breakout for each of the above courses is as follows:

#### Course: Work Manager for Team Members

<table><thead><tr><th width="282">Section</th><th width="397">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Your Home Page</td><td>Familiarising yourself with your homepage and what you can see from it. </td></tr><tr><td>Using Quickfind </td><td>Using Quickfind to find people, work items &#x26; communications </td></tr><tr><td>Handle Ticket – Resolve </td><td>Familiarising with ticket features, and how to use to resolve a query </td></tr><tr><td>Handle Ticket – place on Wait </td><td>Pausing work  </td></tr><tr><td>Merging Tickets </td><td>How &#x26; when to combine work items </td></tr><tr><td>Splitting Tickets </td><td>Splitting out tickets where multiple separate requests are to be managed independently. </td></tr><tr><td>Making a Case from a Ticket </td><td>When &#x26; how to promote a ticket to a case running in a predefined process </td></tr><tr><td>Creating Cases </td><td>How to create Cases, familiarising with case features </td></tr><tr><td>Processing an Action </td><td>Processing an Action &#x26; familiarising with action features </td></tr><tr><td>Manually Starting Actions </td><td>Starting ad-hoc activity rather than as part of the standard workflow </td></tr><tr><td>When you can’t resolve an Action </td><td>Options available for dealing with cases where an action cannot be resolved. </td></tr><tr><td>The different state of a Case </td><td>The various states which cases, actions &#x26; tickets can be in. </td></tr></tbody></table>

#### Course: Work Manager for Team Leaders

<table><thead><tr><th width="282">Section</th><th width="397">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Setting up your Teams &#x26; Queues </td><td>How to build out the team of people who work in your team, and the work Queues you manage </td></tr><tr><td>Home Page for Team Leaders </td><td>Familiarisation with the Home Page for Team Leaders – reassigning work between team members </td></tr><tr><td>Adding &#x26; Viewing Robots to Queues </td><td>How robots can be added to your teams and the robot visibility you have from your Home page. </td></tr></tbody></table>

#### Course: Level 1 Enate Configuration

<table><thead><tr><th width="282">Section</th><th width="397">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Builder</td><td>An introduction to Builder, Enate's environment for creating Ticket &#x26; Case Processes, plus all supporting setup such as User &#x26; Email configuration.</td></tr><tr><td>Create a Service Instance</td><td>Explanation of the Service Matrix screen and using it to create Service Instances for customers</td></tr><tr><td>Tickets, Cases &#x26; Actions</td><td>An overview of Ticket, Case &#x26; Action Work Items in Enate.</td></tr><tr><td>Users &#x26; Permissions</td><td>User Setup, User Groups &#x26; Permission. Creating User Accounts &#x26; User Groups.</td></tr><tr><td>Setting up Ticketing</td><td>Creating a Ticket process in Builder and adding Ticket Categories. Cloning a Ticket, Creating Queues and Allocating to  it.</td></tr><tr><td>Configuring Cases</td><td>Case &#x26; Action configuration overview. Creating a Case, Due Dates, Allocations &#x26; General Settings.</td></tr><tr><td>Configuring Checklists</td><td>Setting up Checklists on Actions in a Case process</td></tr><tr><td>Customers, Contracts &#x26; Services</td><td>The Customer/Contract/Service Hierarchy structure in Enate Builder. Creating Contracts &#x26; Service Lines.</td></tr><tr><td>Build a new Case Type</td><td>Creating new types of Case and Action in Builder.</td></tr><tr><td>Custom Data &#x26; Custom Cards</td><td>Creating custom data fields to store key data when processing work items. Creating Custom Cards &#x26; linking to Data fields.</td></tr><tr><td>Case Conditions</td><td>Adding Conditions and conditional flows into your Case processes to support multiple routes through process.</td></tr></tbody></table>

#### Course: Email Mailbox Configuration&#x20;

<table><thead><tr><th width="282">Section</th><th width="397">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Creating an Email Connector</td><td>Email Connector (Mailbox) overview. Creating a new Email Connector for handling inbound emails and converting them into the right Work Item Type</td></tr><tr><td>Outbound Email Setup</td><td>Enabling Outbound Email for agents to send mails out from Enate.</td></tr><tr><td>Email Templates</td><td>Creating standard repeatable emails to support manual mail composition and in-process automatic email sending.</td></tr><tr><td>Canned Response Configuration</td><td>Creating standard text content for use by Agents when composing emails.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Contact us at <training@enate.net> for more information on Enate Academy training&#x20;
