# Source: https://docs.enate.net/enate-help/builder/builder-2021.1/email-mailbox-configuration/incoming-emails-processing-logic/subsequent-email-responses-scenarios.md

# Subsequent Email Responses - Scenarios

This section details what happens when subsequent response emails are sent into Enate after an initial work item has been created. These could be sent by the original sender, or by other people included in the original email ('cc' or 'To' recipients) who may have no link to the Enate system.

### Each sample scenario begins with..

{% hint style="info" %}
**..an email being sent by&#x20;**<mark style="color:blue;">**<JohnJones@Customer.com>**</mark>**&#x20;to multiple people, including into a specific department in your service centre linked to '**<mark style="color:blue;">**<FR@SampleCorp.com>**</mark>**', resulting in creation of a&#x20;**<mark style="color:blue;">**Ticket T-1234**</mark>**, and an acknowledgement email sent back out to Original Sender, cc'd to those cc'd on the original incoming email.**
{% endhint %}

## 1. In 'Traditional' mode (Plus Addressing Mode OFF)

A number of different scenarios are detailed in the table further below, however there is a fairly standard overall logic of how subsequent incoming emails are treated by Enate when running in 'Traditional' mode, if you need a 'rule of thumb'..

* **Standard -**  If you respond to a mail that includes a connector email address, the mail will get appended to the work item that connector created.&#x20;
* **Add New Connector -** If you add a new connector email address into a response email, a new work item will be created, linked to the initial work item. If the original connector email address is still in the email addresses, the email will also append to that original work item."&#x20;
* **BCC -** If the connector email address is only a BCC, the email will sit in 'unhandled emails', unless you have a fallback rule set up which routes mails with that 'from' address.&#x20;
* **Split -** If a ticket is split and you respond to the original ticket, it will get appended to all of the resulting split tickets.&#x20;
* **Merge -** If a ticket gets merged and you respond to the original ticket, it will get appended to the remaining merged ticket.&#x20;
* **Case -** If a ticket gets promoted to a Case and you respond to the original ticket, it will get appended to the Case.

### Scenarios - Traditional Mode

<table><thead><tr><th width="251">Description</th><th width="223">Example details</th><th width="276">Behaviour</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>People start replying on the email chain</td><td>a colleague responds to the original email, retaining 'fr@samplecorp.com' as the relevant service centre email address.</td><td>The new email is appended to Ticket T-1234, because Enate recognizes this as a mail relating to mail which started T-1234.</td></tr><tr><td>People start replying on the email chain, AND adds in a new service centre email address.</td><td>a colleague responds with a 'reply all', but also adds in 'ma@samplecorp.com' as one of the addresses.</td><td>Enate Creates a new ticket T-1235, based on a mail arriving into 'fr@samplecorp.com'.<br><br>The email is also appended to Ticket T-1234, which continues as normal.<br>(T-1234 &#x26; T-1235 get linked).</td></tr><tr><td>Simple Reply Original sender hit 'reply' to the Auto-response email out from Enate.</td><td>John.Jones@Customer.com sends reply email back in to fr@samplecorp.com.</td><td>The new email is appended to Ticket T-1234.</td></tr><tr><td>Original Sender hits 'reply all' to the automated acknowledgement AND adds a new service address AND a new colleague. New colleague then replies to original sender's second email with a 'Reply All'.</td><td>John.Jones@Customer.com sends reply all email back in to fr@samplecorp.com, add 'ma@samplecorp.com' and 'James.Smith@Customer.com'.<br>James then sends a Reply ALL </td><td>Enate Creates a new ticket T-1235, based on a mail arriving into 'fr@samplecorp.com'.<br><br>The email is also appended to Ticket T-1234, which continues as normal.<br>(T-1234 &#x26; T-1235 get linked).<br><br>The subsequent email, from James, gets attached to BOTH tickets (as it is addressed to fr@samplecorp.com AND ma@samplecorp.com</td></tr><tr><td>A person who was cc'd on the original email hits 'Reply All' to the original email AND adds a new service centre email. Then another colleage hits  replay all on that email.</td><td>James (cc'd on original) sends a Reply All to original email, and adds in 'Andrew.Jones@Customer.com' AND  'ma@samplecorp.com'.<br><br>Andrew then sends a 'Reply All' to that email.</td><td>Enate Creates a new ticket T-1235, based on a mail arriving into 'fr@samplecorp.com'.<br><br>The email is also appended to Ticket T-1234, which continues as normal.<br>(T-1234 &#x26; T-1235 get linked).<br><br>The subsequent email, from James, gets attached to BOTH tickets (as it is addressed to fr@samplecorp.com AND ma@samplecorp.com</td></tr><tr><td>A person who was cc'd on the original email hits 'Reply All' to the original email but SWAPS IN a new service centre email. Then another colleague hits  replay all on that email.</td><td>James (cc'd on original) sends a Reply All to original email, removing 'fr@samplecorp.com' and adding in 'ma@samplecorp.com'.<br></td><td>Enate Creates a new ticket T-1235, based on a mail arriving into 'fr@samplecorp.com'. </td></tr><tr><td>One of the original email recipients replies to the original email, but moes the service centre address to BCC (NO Wildcard Route is configured for the From address).</td><td>James (cc'd on original) sends a Reply All to original email, moving 'fr@samplecorp.com' to be a 'bcc'.</td><td>Goes to 'Unprocessed Emails'</td></tr><tr><td>One of the original email recipients replies to the original email, but moes the service centre address to BCC (however a Wildcard Route IS configured for the From address).</td><td>James (cc'd on original) sends a Reply All to original email, moving 'fr@samplecorp.com' to be a 'bcc'.</td><td>Enate Creates a new ticket T-1235, based on finding a wildcard route for the 'from' address.</td></tr><tr><td>Convert to Case: An agent converts the Ticket into a Case. An acknowledgement email is sent to the user, which they reply to.</td><td>Service Agent converts T-1234 to C-1234, auto-sending out an acknowledgement email. Original sender responds to this mail.</td><td>Email gets appended to Case C-1234<br></td></tr><tr><td>Split Ticket: Ticket gets split into 2 tickets. Original Sender sends a 'reply all' mail to the initial mail which created the main 'parent' Ticket.</td><td>Servic Agent splits T-1234 into T-1235 &#x26; T-1236.<br>John sends a 'Reply All' to T-1234 confirmation mail.</td><td>Email gets appended to T-1234, AND to T-1235 &#x26; T-1236</td></tr><tr><td>Merge Ticket: Ticket gets merged into another (and so is closed). Original Sender hits 'reply all' to their orignal email.</td><td>Servic Agent merges T-1234 and another ticket, T-1235, together. T-1245 closes as a result.<br><br>John sends a 'Reply All' to T-1234 confirmation mail.</td><td>Email gets appended to T-1235</td></tr></tbody></table>
