# Return Codes

> Understand the return codes provided by the AWS CLI.

**Source:** https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-usage-returncodes.html

---

# Command line return codes in the AWS CLI

The return code is usually a hidden code sent after running a AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) command
    which describes the status of the command. You can use the `echo` command to display
    the code sent from the last AWS CLI command and use these codes to determine if a command was
    successful or if it failed, and why a command might have an error. In addition to the return
    codes, you can view more details about a failure by running your commands with the
      `--debug` switch. This switch produces a detailed report of the steps the AWS CLI
    uses to process the command, and what the result of each step was.

To determine the return code of an AWS CLI command, run one of the following commands
    immediately after running the CLI command. 

The following are the return code values that can be returned at the end of running an AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) command.

          Code
          Meaning

          0

The service responded with an HTTP response status code of 200 indicating that
              there were no errors generated by the AWS CLI and AWS service the request was sent
              to.

          1

One or more Amazon S3 transfer operations failed. *Limited to S3
                commands.*

          2

The meaning of this return code depends on the command: 

- 
                
*Applicable to all AWS CLI commands* –
                  the command entered couldn't be parsed. Parsing failures can be caused by, but
                  aren't limited to, missing required subcommands or arguments, or using unknown
                  commands or arguments.

- 
                
*Limited to S3 commands* – One or more
                  files marked for transfer were skipped during the transfer process. However, all
                  other files marked for transfer were successfully transferred. Files that are
                  skipped during the transfer process include: files that don't exist; files that
                  are character special devices, block special device, FIFO queues, or sockets; and
                  files that the user doesn't have read permissions to.

          130

The command was interrupted by a SIGINT. This is the signal sent by you to cancel
              a command with `Ctrl`+`C`.

          252

Command syntax was invalid, an unknown parameter was provided, or a parameter
              value was incorrect and prevented the command from running.

          253

The system environment or configuration was invalid. While the command provided
              might be syntactically valid, missing configuration or credentials prevented the
              command from running.

          254

The command successfully parsed and a request made to the specified service but
              the service returned an error. This will generally indicate incorrect API usage or
              other service specific issues.

          255

The command failed. There were errors generated by the AWS CLI or by the AWS
              service to which the request was sent.