# Source: https://novita.ai/docs/changelog/07-04-25--11-04-25.md

> ## Documentation Index
> Fetch the complete documentation index at: https://novita.ai/docs/llms.txt
> Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.

# April 11, 2025 Product Updates

## **New Features**

* **Template Library Added to Console**

  1. We've added a Template Library to the console, featuring templates created by both the official team and the user community.
  2. In addition to deploying and saving templates, users are encouraged to **share templates** they like by copying the link **with a single click**.
  3. To contribute your own templates, simply **set the visibility** to Public when creating one. Public templates will appear in the Template Library, and those that gain popularity may be featured.

  Updated time: April 7, 2025
* **New Model: meta-llama/llama-4-maverick-17b-128e-instruct-fp8**

  Novita has deployed **Llama 4 Maverick 17B Instruct (128E)** , a high-performance multimodal language model developed by Meta using a **Mixture-of-Experts (MoE)** architecture. The model dynamically activates 17 billion parameters per inference from a total of 400 billion parameters, distributed across 128 expert modules. It supports **text and image inputs in 12 languages**, and produces **text and code outputs**. Designed specifically for **vision-language tasks**, the model has been instruction-tuned to handle assistant-style interactions, image reasoning, and a wide range of general multimodal applications.

  Updated time: April 7, 2025
* **New Model: meta-llama/llama-4-scout-17b-16e-instruct**

  Novita has deployed **Llama 4 Scout 17B Instruct (16E)**, a **Mixture-of-Experts (MoE)** language model developed by Meta. The model dynamically activates 17 billion parameters per inference from a total of 109 billion parameters, utilizing 16 expert modules each time. It supports **multimodal inputs** (text and images) and generates **text or code outputs** in **12 languages**. Designed for **intelligent assistant interactions** and **visual reasoning tasks**, It also supports a **10 million-token context window**, and was trained on a **massive 40-trillion-token dataset**.

  Updated time: April 7, 2025

## **Improvements**

* **Improved Instance Status Visibility**

  Two new intermediate statuses—**“Starting”** and **“Stopping”**—have been introduced to provide **more granular visibility** during instance state transitions.

  Updated time: April 10, 2025


Built with [Mintlify](https://mintlify.com).