# Source: https://novita.ai/docs/changelog/14-07-25--18-07-25.md

> ## Documentation Index
> Fetch the complete documentation index at: https://novita.ai/docs/llms.txt
> Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.

# July 18, 2025 Product Updates

## **GPUs Updates**

### **New Features**

* **GPU Instance Spot Pricing**

  Advantages of Functional Features:

  1. Greatest Advantage: **Affordable!! The price is generally 50% off the on-demand price**, making it highly price-competitive in the market. For example, the current price of 4090 is \$0.35, while the spot 4090 price is as low as \$0.18, and larger usage volumes may result in greater discounts.
  2. Why is it so cheap? Spot instances are essentially designed to handle idle inventory, so **they may be reclaimed at any time due to resource shortages** (instance termination).
  3. How can we ensure the stability of our customers' business as much as possible while keeping costs low? Our spot billing instances will adopt the following strategies:
     * After creation, it enjoys **a 1-hour grace period**, during which the instance is guaranteed not to be reclaimed
     * Before resource recycling, a notice will be sent **1 hour in advance, and another notice will be sent 5 minutes before instance recycling**. When customers receive the notice, they can back up their data, while we give customers more time to back up their data!

  Updated time: July 18, 2025

***

## **Agent SandBox Updates**

### **New Features**

* **The product page for Agent Sandbox is now live**

  This page provides a concise overview of Agent Sandbox's core features, use cases, pricing model, and helpful documentation, enabling users to quickly get started and explore its powerful capabilities.

  **Agent Sandbox** is a high-performance cloud runtime purpose-built for **AI Agent workloads**, designed to support the full lifecycle of autonomous agents.

  Key features include:

  * **Millisecond-Level Startup**
  * **Secure Isolation**
  * **High Concurrency**

  Explore the [Agent Sandbox](https://novita.ai/sandbox) product page to discover more details!

  Updated time: July 18, 2025


Built with [Mintlify](https://mintlify.com).