# Source: https://novita.ai/docs/changelog/17-03-25--21-03-25.md

> ## Documentation Index
> Fetch the complete documentation index at: https://novita.ai/docs/llms.txt
> Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.

# Weekly Product Updates - March 21, 2025

## **New Features**

* **LLM Full Model Upgrade: Function Calling & Structured Outputs Available Now**

  Novita now supports Function Calling and Structured Outputs for all capability-supported models on the platform. Developers can now filter models using these tags for more precise API integration and structured data generation that aligned with custom schemas. Refer to the API documentation for details: [**Function calling**](https://novita.ai/docs/guides/llm-function-calling) & [**Structured Outputs**](https://novita.ai/docs/guides/llm-structured-outputs)

  Updated time: March 21, 2025
* **Image Dedicated Endpoint now supports billing queries**

  Billing for Image Dedicated Endpoints now includes monthly query support.

  Updated time: March 21, 2025
* **The annual and monthly subscription functionality of GPU Instance is now officially released**

  1. **Flexible Billing Model:** Users can freely choose between on-demand and monthly subscription when launching instances.
  2. **Enhanced Resource Guarantee:** During the monthly subscription period, even if an instance is shut down, it remains reserved for the user, significantly enhancing the user experience.
  3. **Seamless Service Transition:** Supports converting on-demand instances to annual or monthly subscriptions, as well as renewals during the subscription period.
  4. **Monthly Subscription Discounts:** Monthly subscriptions start at a 10% discount over pay-as-you-go, with additional saving for longer terms.

  Updated time: March 19, 2025
* **Team members' nicknames are now displayed in the task lists for Instance, Serverless GPUs, and more**

  When the account is in Team mode, the GPUs Console now displays member nicknames.

  Updated time: March 18, 2025


Built with [Mintlify](https://mintlify.com).