# Source: https://docs.anyscale.com/release-notes/platform/2025.md

# Anyscale platform release notes - 2025

[View Markdown](/release-notes/platform/2025.md)

# Anyscale platform release notes - 2025

Use this page to learn about new features and improvements to the Anyscale platform, including the Anyscale console, CLI, and SDK.

To learn about new features added as part of Ray releases, see [Ray release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases).

To learn about Python and system libraries installed in each Anyscale base image, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

## December 2025[​](#december-2025 "Direct link to December 2025")

Anyscale product release announcements for December 2025.

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 1.3.0 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-130-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 1.3.0 released")

**December 22, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 1.3.0 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-1.3.0).

### Use Anyscale tags for setting priority for workload scheduling[​](#use-anyscale-tags-for-setting-priority-for-workload-scheduling "Direct link to Use Anyscale tags for setting priority for workload scheduling")

**December 22, 2025**

You can now use custom tags set in Anyscale to control workload priority when using the global resource scheduler. This feature is in beta release. See [Example: Use custom resource tags for scheduling rules](/machine-pools/global-resource-scheduler.md#custom-tags).

### Ray 2.53.0 released[​](#ray-2530-released "Direct link to Ray 2.53.0 released")

**December 20, 2025**

Ray 2.53.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.53.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.53.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Lineage tracking now in private beta[​](#lineage-tracking-now-in-private-beta "Direct link to Lineage tracking now in private beta")

**December 19, 2025**

Anyscale lineage tracking is now available as a private beta release. See [Lineage tracking](/lineage.md).

### Custom template support added for Kubernetes clouds[​](#custom-template-support-added-for-kubernetes-clouds "Direct link to Custom template support added for Kubernetes clouds")

**December 10, 2025**

You can now create and use custom templates on Anyscale clouds configure on Kubernetes. See [Share workspaces with custom templates](/platform/workspaces/custom-templates.md).

### View Anyscale usage in dollars[​](#view-anyscale-usage-in-dollars "Direct link to View Anyscale usage in dollars")

**December 8, 2025**

You can now set the metrics for the Anyscale usage dashboard to `$` to view Anyscale usage in US dollars. See [Usage dashboard](/administration/billing/usage-dashboard.md).

### New single sign-on (SSO) configuration flow[​](#new-single-sign-on-sso-configuration-flow "Direct link to New single sign-on (SSO) configuration flow")

**December 8, 2025**

A new flow for configuring SSO for your Anyscale organization is now available. All new organizations should use this flow. Existing organizations that have SSO configured can choose to migrate. See [Configure SSO for your Anyscale organization](/administration/organization/configure-sso.md).

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 1.2.1 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-121-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 1.2.1 released")

**December 8, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 1.2.1 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-1.2.1).

### Legacy CLI commands removed[​](#legacy-cli-commands-removed "Direct link to Legacy CLI commands removed")

**December 2, 2025**

Anyscale CLI version 0.26.77 removes support for a number of legacy commands. See [Commands removed in version 0.26.77](/archive/ref.md#02677).

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 1.2.0 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-120-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 1.2.0 released")

**December 1, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 1.2.0 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-1.2.0).

## November 2025[​](#november-2025 "Direct link to November 2025")

Anyscale product release announcements for November 2025.

### Ray 2.52.1 released[​](#ray-2521-released "Direct link to Ray 2.52.1 released")

**November 27, 2025**

Ray 2.52.1 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.52.1 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.52.1).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Ray 2.52.0 released[​](#ray-2520-released "Direct link to Ray 2.52.0 released")

**November 21, 2025**

Ray 2.52.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.52.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.52.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Support for new instance types on Google Cloud[​](#support-for-new-instance-types-on-google-cloud "Direct link to Support for new instance types on Google Cloud")

**November 19, 2025**

Anyscale now supports C4 instance types on Google Cloud backed by 6th generation Intel Xeon processors. C4 instances using these processors include those with 144 or 288 vCPUS, local SSD (`-lssd`), and bare metal (`-metal`).

### Anyscale CLI no longer supports Python 3.8[​](#anyscale-cli-no-longer-supports-python-38 "Direct link to Anyscale CLI no longer supports Python 3.8")

**November 17, 2025**

Anyscale has removed support for Python 3.8 for the Anyscale CLI starting in version 0.26.75.

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 1.1.0 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-110-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 1.1.0 released")

**November 17, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 1.1.0 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-1.1.0).

### Customer-managed machine pools deprecation notice[​](#customer-managed-machine-pools-deprecation-notice "Direct link to Customer-managed machine pools deprecation notice")

**November 14, 2025**

Customer-managed machine pools are deprecated and will be fully removed from the Anyscale platform on December 5, 2025. Contact your Anyscale account representative if you're using customer-managed machine pools and require an extension.

Anyscale recommends using Kubernetes to register on-premises resources for use with Anyscale. You can use Anyscale-managed machine pools with cloud resources backed by Kubernetes, including on-premises Kubernetes clusters. See [Deploy Anyscale on Kubernetes](/admin/cloud/kubernetes.md) and contact [Anyscale Support](mailto:support@anyscale.com) to get started.

### RayTurbo is now the Anyscale Runtime[​](#rayturbo-is-now-the-anyscale-runtime "Direct link to RayTurbo is now the Anyscale Runtime")

**November 4, 2025**

The Anyscale Runtime extends Ray with custom features, default configurations, and integrations with the Anyscale platform. Features previously referred to as RayTurbo are part of the Anyscale Runtime. Use an Anyscale base image while configuring any workload on Anyscale to use the Anyscale Runtime. See [What is the Anyscale Runtime?](/runtime.md).

### Support for new instance types on AWS[​](#support-for-new-instance-types-on-aws "Direct link to Support for new instance types on AWS")

**November 1, 2025**

Anyscale has added support for new instance types on AWS, including instances backed by 6th generation Intel Xeon processors and 5th generation AMD EPYC processors. New instance types include the following: `c8i`, `m8i`, `r8i`, `m8a`, and `p5.4xlarge`.

## October 2025[​](#october-2025 "Direct link to October 2025")

Anyscale product release announcements for October 2025.

### Python 3.9 support is end-of-life for Ray[​](#python-39-support-is-end-of-life-for-ray "Direct link to Python 3.9 support is end-of-life for Ray")

**October 31, 2025**

Python 3.9 reached end-of-life (EOL) status on October 31, 2025. Ray 2.51.x is the last version of Ray that includes support for Python 3.9. Anyscale recommends upgrading all workloads to a supported Python version.

### Ray 2.51.1 released[​](#ray-2511-released "Direct link to Ray 2.51.1 released")

**October 31, 2025**

Ray 2.51.1 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.51.1 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.51.1).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Final Anyscale CLI release for deprecated methods[​](#final-anyscale-cli-release-for-deprecated-methods "Direct link to Final Anyscale CLI release for deprecated methods")

**October 31, 2025**

Anyscale CLI version 0.26.72 is the last release to support legacy CLI commands. Anyscale will remove support for these commands on January 29, 2026. See [Legacy CLI and SDK methods](/archive/ref.md) for all methods marked for removal.

### Add custom tags to workloads and cloud resources[​](#add-custom-tags-to-workloads-and-cloud-resources "Direct link to Add custom tags to workloads and cloud resources")

**October 31, 2025**

You can now add custom tags to your Anyscale workloads that propagate to resources in your cloud provider account. Use these tags for filtering and searching in Anyscale, as well as monitoring and cost-attribution in your cloud provider account. See [Add custom tags to workloads and cloud resources](/resources/custom-tags.md).

### Create and use custom templates with Anyscale workspaces[​](#create-and-use-custom-templates-with-anyscale-workspaces "Direct link to Create and use custom templates with Anyscale workspaces")

**October 31, 2025**

Cloud owners can now create and share custom templates to share workspace files and configurations with all users in an Anyscale cloud. Custom templates are available as a beta release on clouds backed by virtual machines. See [Share workspaces with custom templates](/platform/workspaces/custom-templates.md).

### Use machine pools to manage spot and on-demand instances[​](#use-machine-pools-to-manage-spot-and-on-demand-instances "Direct link to Use machine pools to manage spot and on-demand instances")

**October 30, 2025**

You can now add spot and on-demand instances to Anyscale machine pools to manage scheduling priority and preemption across capacity reservations, spot, and on-demand instances. See [Configure an Anyscale-managed machine pool](/machine-pools.md#configure).

### Deploy multiple versions of an Anyscale service[​](#deploy-multiple-versions-of-an-anyscale-service "Direct link to Deploy multiple versions of an Anyscale service")

**October 30, 2025**

You can now deploy multiple versions of an Anyscale service using the same endpoint and control how traffic routes to each version. This feature is in beta release. See [Deploy multiple versions of an Anyscale service](/services/versions.md).

### View node and worker details in the cluster dashboard[​](#view-node-and-worker-details-in-the-cluster-dashboard "Direct link to View node and worker details in the cluster dashboard")

**October 30, 2025**

You can now use the cluster dashboard to view details about nodes and workers for Anyscale jobs or workspaces. The cluster dashboard provides a more granular view that allows you to observe how your Ray workload uses cluster resources. See [Anyscale cluster dashboard](/monitoring/cluster-dashboard.md).

### Monitoring improvements for Anyscale workloads[​](#monitoring-improvements-for-anyscale-workloads "Direct link to Monitoring improvements for Anyscale workloads")

**October 29, 2025**

The **Overview** tab in Anyscale workload dashboards now includes a banner when critical events such as OOMs occur. Events now contain links to view logs and metrics. Recent Ray Data and Ray Train workloads appear at the top of the dashboard. See [Monitor and debug Anyscale workloads](/monitoring.md).

### Enable high throughput serving for Anyscale services[​](#enable-high-throughput-serving-for-anyscale-services "Direct link to Enable high throughput serving for Anyscale services")

**October 28, 2025**

Anyscale has introduced support for a new high throughput serving mode as a beta preview for Anyscale clouds on AWS virtual machines. You must use Ray version 2.51.0 or later and set the environment variable `RAY_SERVE_THROUGHPUT_OPTIMIZED=1` in your container image to use this mode. See [High-throughput serving](/runtime/serve.md#high-throughput).

### Ray 2.51.0 released[​](#ray-2510-released "Direct link to Ray 2.51.0 released")

**October 28, 2025**

Ray 2.51.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.51.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.51.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 1.0.1 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-101-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 1.0.1 released")

**October 24, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 1.0.1 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-1.0.1).

### Control plane networking domain updates for Kubernetes[​](#control-plane-networking-domain-updates-for-kubernetes "Direct link to Control plane networking domain updates for Kubernetes")

**October 20, 2025**

The Anyscale operator for Kubernetes now supports using the `*.anyscale-cloud.dev` set of domains for custom networking rules in version 1.0.0 or later. See [Kubernetes resources](/networking/overview.md#kubernetes-resources).

### New cloud setup option for Anyscale on Kubernetes[​](#new-cloud-setup-option-for-anyscale-on-kubernetes "Direct link to New cloud setup option for Anyscale on Kubernetes")

**October 20, 2025**

You can now use the `--stack=k8s` option with the `anyscale cloud setup` CLI command to configure an Anyscale cloud using an existing EKS or GKE cluster. This CLI command is in beta. This command configures and deploys infrastructure in your cloud provider account and installs the Anyscale operator on your Kubernetes cluster. See [Baseline deploy for EKS and GKE](/admin/cloud/kubernetes.md#setup).

### New format for Anyscale operator Helm chart values[​](#new-format-for-anyscale-operator-helm-chart-values "Direct link to New format for Anyscale operator Helm chart values")

**October 20, 2025**

Version 1.0.0 of the Anyscale operator introduces breaking changes through a major refactor to Helm chart parameters. For documentation of new values, see [Kubernetes Helm configuration reference](/k8s/helm-ref.md).

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 1.0.0 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-100-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 1.0.0 released")

**October 20, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 1.0.0 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-1.0.0).

### Ray 2.50.1 released[​](#ray-2501-released "Direct link to Ray 2.50.1 released")

**October 18, 2025**

Ray 2.50.1 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.50.1 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.50.1).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Improved Ray metrics dashboards[​](#improved-ray-metrics-dashboards "Direct link to Improved Ray metrics dashboards")

**October 16, 2025**

Anyscale has improved the page load performance and organization of Ray metrics dashboards in the Anyscale console. All workloads running on Ray 2.50.0 or later use this enhanced experience for displaying Ray metrics. See [New metrics dashboard experience in Ray 2.50.0 or later](/monitoring/metrics.md#new-metrics).

### Task view for Ray Data operators[​](#task-view-for-ray-data-operators "Direct link to Task view for Ray Data operators")

**October 15, 2025**

The Ray Data dashboard now includes a **Tasks** tab when viewing metrics for a Ray Data operator. See [View Ray Data operator details](/monitoring/workload-debugging/data-dashboard.md#operator).

### Mid-epoch training resumption for Ray Data is now in beta[​](#mid-epoch-training-resumption-for-ray-data-is-now-in-beta "Direct link to Mid-epoch training resumption for Ray Data is now in beta")

**October 10, 2025**

You can now enable mid-epoch training resumption on Anyscale to resume training from the exact point where it stopped without repeating or skipping any data samples, when using Ray Data for training data ingestion. See [Mid-epoch training resumption](/runtime/mid-epoch-resumption.md).

### Ray 2.50.0 released[​](#ray-2500-released "Direct link to Ray 2.50.0 released")

**October 10, 2025**

Ray 2.50.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.50.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.50.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### New management options for user API keys[​](#new-management-options-for-user-api-keys "Direct link to New management options for user API keys")

**October 9, 2025**

You can now use the Anyscale console to create user API keys with names and expiration dates. Users can review all their own keys and revoke individual keys. Organization owners can review and revoke API keys for all users in the organization. See [Manage API keys](/auth/api-keys.md).

### Alerts for long-running jobs are now GA[​](#alerts-for-long-running-jobs-are-now-ga "Direct link to Alerts for long-running jobs are now GA")

**October 9, 2025**

Support for sending alerts for long-running jobs is now generally available. See [Custom job and service notifications](/administration/resource-management/custom-notifications.md).

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.9.2 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-092-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.9.2 released")

**October 7, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 0.9.2 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-0.9.2).

### Health reporting for the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes is GA[​](#health-reporting-for-the-anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-is-ga "Direct link to Health reporting for the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes is GA")

**October 6, 2025**

Anyscale console health reporting for the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes is now generally available. See [Health report for the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes](/monitoring/operator-health.md).

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.9.1 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-091-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.9.1 released")

**October 2, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 0.9.1 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-0.9.1).

### Price-based ranking on AWS is in beta[​](#price-based-ranking-on-aws-is-in-beta "Direct link to Price-based ranking on AWS is in beta")

**October 1, 2025**

You can now use price-based ranking to prioritize worker node selection when deploying and autoscaling Anyscale clusters. This feature is in beta release and only supports virtual machines on AWS. See [Price-based ranking strategy](/configuration/compute/advanced.md#price).

### P3 and G3 instances reach end-of-support[​](#p3-and-g3-instances-reach-end-of-support "Direct link to P3 and G3 instances reach end-of-support")

**October 1, 2025**

Anyscale no longer supports P3 and G3 instances on AWS.

## September 2025[​](#sept-2025 "Direct link to September 2025")

Anyscale product release announcements for September 2025.

### View health report for the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes[​](#view-health-report-for-the-anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes "Direct link to View health report for the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes")

**September 30, 2025**

The Anyscale console now displays a health report for each Anyscale operator deployed to Kubernetes for your Anyscale clouds. This feature is in beta release. See [Health report for the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes](/monitoring/operator-health.md).

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.9.0 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-090-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.9.0 released")

**September 30, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 0.9.0 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-0.9.0).

### Worker group ranking order is now GA[​](#worker-group-ranking-order-is-now-ga "Direct link to Worker group ranking order is now GA")

**September 29, 2025**

Support for configuring preferences for worker node group ranking is now generally available. See [Worker group ranking](/configuration/compute/advanced.md#worker-ranking).

### Use labels to manage node scheduling[​](#use-labels-to-manage-node-scheduling "Direct link to Use labels to manage node scheduling")

**September 29, 2025**

Ray now includes default labels for each node and allows you to define additional custom labels for worker groups. This feature is in beta release. Use labels to control how Ray assigns tasks and actors to nodes. See [Use labels to control scheduling](/configuration/compute/advanced.md#labels).

### Updates to Anyscale control plane domains[​](#updates-to-anyscale-control-plane-domains "Direct link to Updates to Anyscale control plane domains")

**September 29, 2025**

Anyscale has migrated key system endpoints to the domain `*.anyscale-cloud.dev`. You must allowlist this domain to set custom egress controls for Anyscale cloud resources. See [Detailed network flows for Anyscale](/networking/overview.md).

### Send alerts for long-running jobs[​](#send-alerts-for-long-running-jobs "Direct link to Send alerts for long-running jobs")

**September 26, 2025**

Organization owners can now configure resource notifications to send alerts for long-running jobs. This feature is in beta release for selected customers. See [Custom job and service notifications](/administration/resource-management/custom-notifications.md).

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.8.0 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-080-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.8.0 released")

**September 23, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 0.8.0 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-0.8.0).

### Ray 2.49.2 released[​](#ray-2492-released "Direct link to Ray 2.49.2 released")

**September 18, 2025**

Ray 2.49.2 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.49.2 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.49.2).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Anyscale to stop building `ray-ml` base image[​](#anyscale-to-stop-building-ray-ml-base-image "Direct link to anyscale-to-stop-building-ray-ml-base-image")

**September 11, 2025**

Anyscale [previously deprecated support](#ray-ml-deprecated) for `ray-ml` base images and has now stopped building and publishing these images. Ray 2.49.1 is the last `ray-ml` base image release.

Anyscale recommends migrating all workloads to supported base images.

### Define tolerations for instance types[​](#define-tolerations-for-instance-types "Direct link to Define tolerations for instance types")

**September 10, 2025**

The Anyscale operator for Kubernetes now respects tolerations specified in instance type definitions for Pods. You must use Anyscale operator version 0.7.0 or later. See the [Anyscale operator release notes](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases).

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.7.0 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-070-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.7.0 released")

**September 10, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 0.7.0 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-0.7.0).

### Ray 2.49.1 released[​](#ray-2491-released "Direct link to Ray 2.49.1 released")

**September 2, 2025**

Ray 2.49.1 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.49.1 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.49.1).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### View credit history for your organization[​](#credit-history "Direct link to View credit history for your organization")

**September 2, 2025**

Organization owners can now use the credit history dashboard to monitor credit balances, track credit usage, and view past and pending grant activity. The credit history dashboard is a beta release. See [Credit history dashboard](/administration/billing/credit-dashboard.md).

## August 2025[​](#aug-2025 "Direct link to August 2025")

Anyscale product release announcements for August 2025.

### Compare Anyscale base images dependencies[​](#compare-anyscale-base-images-dependencies "Direct link to Compare Anyscale base images dependencies")

**August 29, 2025**

You can now compare Anyscale base image dependencies in the Anyscale docs. This tool is in beta release. See [Compare Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images/compare).

### Spot preemption no longer counts toward retry count[​](#spot-preemption-no-longer-counts-toward-retry-count "Direct link to Spot preemption no longer counts toward retry count")

**August 26, 2025**

In Ray 2.48.0 or later, spot instance preemption no longer counts toward the retry or restart count for Ray actors that set `max_restarts` or Ray tasks that set `max_retries`. This fixes previous behavior where Ray counted retries or restarts due to spot instance preemption.

### Ray 2.49.0 released[​](#ray-2490-released "Direct link to Ray 2.49.0 released")

**August 26, 2025**

Ray 2.49.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.49.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.49.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Cloud IAM mapping for Kubernetes is now in beta[​](#cloud-iam-mapping-for-kubernetes-is-now-in-beta "Direct link to Cloud IAM mapping for Kubernetes is now in beta")

**August 15, 2025**

You can now use cloud IAM mapping for Anyscale clouds deployed on Kubernetes. Admins use cloud IAM mapping to set rules for permissions based on user identity, projects, and workload type. This feature is in beta release. See [Cloud IAM mapping for Kubernetes](/iam/cloud-iam-mapping.md#kubernetes).

### Configure IAM mapping in the Anyscale console[​](#configure-iam-mapping-in-the-anyscale-console "Direct link to Configure IAM mapping in the Anyscale console")

**August 15, 2025**

Cloud owners can now configure cloud IAM mapping in the Anyscale console. See [Anyscale cloud IAM mapping](/iam/cloud-iam-mapping.md)

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.6.0 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-060-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.6.0 released")

**August 12, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 0.6.0 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-0.6.0).

### Support for Istio gateway for ingress on Anyscale cloud on Kubernetes[​](#support-for-istio-gateway-for-ingress-on-anyscale-cloud-on-kubernetes "Direct link to Support for Istio gateway for ingress on Anyscale cloud on Kubernetes")

**August 12, 2025**

You can now use Istio gateway to configure ingress for your workloads on Anyscale cloud on Kubernetes. You must configure and maintain the gateway, and Anyscale creates and maintains the VirtualServices that reference the gateway. For additional information, contact [Anyscale support](mailto:support@anyscale.com).

### Updated IAM setting required for Anyscale services on AWS[​](#updated-iam-setting-required-for-anyscale-services-on-aws "Direct link to Updated IAM setting required for Anyscale services on AWS")

**August 11, 2025**

Anyscale has updated the control plane for Anyscale clouds on AWS to stop using CloudFormation when deploying resources that support services. The new architecture requires a modification to the control plane IAM permissions for existing Anyscale clouds on AWS. You must complete this migration by February 11, 2026. See [Update your IAM role for services on Anyscale clouds on AWS](/services/cloudformation-eol.md).

### Task dashboard is now in beta[​](#task-dashboard-is-now-in-beta "Direct link to Task dashboard is now in beta")

**August 11, 2025**

Use the Anyscale task dashboard to view details about Anyscale tasks for your jobs and workspaces. The task dashboard supports millions of tasks and persists metrics after cluster termination. This feature is in beta release. See [Anyscale task dashboard](/monitoring/task-dashboard.md).

### Nvidia B200 GPUs are now supported[​](#nvidia-b200-gpus-are-now-supported "Direct link to Nvidia B200 GPUs are now supported")

**August 8, 2025**

You can now select Nvidia B200 GPUs when configuring worker nodes on Anyscale. Anyscale clouds on AWS list these GPUs as P6 instances, while Anyscale clouds on Google Cloud lists them as A4 instances. See [Compute configuration on Anyscale](/configuration/compute.md) and [pricing details for supported machine types](https://www.anyscale.com/pricing-detail#supported-machine-types).

## July 2025[​](#july-2025 "Direct link to July 2025")

Anyscale product release announcements for July 2025.

### Auto-select worker nodes is now GA[​](#auto-select-worker-nodes-is-now-ga "Direct link to Auto-select worker nodes is now GA")

**July 31, 2025**

Support for auto-selecting worker nodes for your cluster is now generally available. When you enable this mode, Anyscale chooses worker instances based on configured accelerator types as well as availability and cost of cloud instances. See [Auto-select worker nodes](/configuration/compute.md#auto-select).

### Support for Google Cloud Storage FUSE CSI driver[​](#support-for-google-cloud-storage-fuse-csi-driver "Direct link to Support for Google Cloud Storage FUSE CSI driver")

**July 30, 2025**.

You can now use the Google Cloud Storage FUSE CSI driver to configure shared storage for clusters deployed from Anyscale on Kubernetes. To enable this behavior, set the following value in your [cloud configuration](/reference/cloud.md#filestorage):

```
file_storage:
  csi_ephemeral_volume_driver: "gcsfuse.csi.storage.gke.io"
```

### Configure persistent volume claim for Anyscale on Kubernetes[​](#configure-persistent-volume-claim-for-anyscale-on-kubernetes "Direct link to Configure persistent volume claim for Anyscale on Kubernetes")

**July 30, 2025**.

You can now configure persistent volume claim (PVC) as shared storage for clusters deployed from Anyscale on Kubernetes. Anyscale attempts to bind pods to the PVC in same namespace as the Anyscale operator, but doesn't manage or configure the PVC. To enable this behavior, set the name of your PVC using the `persistent_volume_claim` field in your [cloud configuration](/reference/cloud.md#filestorage):

```
file_storage:
  persistent_volume_claim: "<name-of-persistent-volume-claim>"
```

### Machine pool console is now in beta[​](#machine-pool-console-is-now-in-beta "Direct link to Machine pool console is now in beta")

**July 22, 2025**

You can now view details about machine pools in your Anyscale organization from the Anyscale console. Details include total utilization, running workloads, available machines, and queued requests. This feature is in beta release. See [Monitor and observe machine pools in the Anyscale console](/machine-pools/console.md).

### Support for EFA is GA[​](#support-for-efa-is-ga "Direct link to Support for EFA is GA")

**July 18, 2025**

Support for using Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA) with Anyscale deployed on AWS is now generally available. Use EFA to accelerate network communications between GPU compute nodes. See [Configure Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA) support](/configuration/compute/aws.md#efa).

### Ray 2.48.0 released[​](#ray-2480-released "Direct link to Ray 2.48.0 released")

**July 18, 2025**

Ray 2.48.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.48.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.48.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### View files in terminated Anyscale clusters[​](#view-files-in-terminated-anyscale-clusters "Direct link to View files in terminated Anyscale clusters")

**July 17, 2025**

You can now view files in Anyscale workspaces, jobs, or services when the cluster isn't running. The file viewer shows the files in the directory passed to the `working_dir` argument or the default workspace directory located at `/home/ray/default/`. This feature is in beta release.

### NFS is now optional for all Anyscale cloud deployments[​](#nfs-is-now-optional-for-all-anyscale-cloud-deployments "Direct link to NFS is now optional for all Anyscale cloud deployments")

**July 14, 2025**

By default, Anyscale now uses the default cloud storage account configured during cloud deployment for shared storage. You can optionally enable NFS storage for your cloud deployment if you need to use NFS for shared storage. You must use Anyscale CLI version 0.26.42 or later. See [Shared storage on Anyscale](/storage/shared.md).

### Support for uv on Anyscale is now in beta[​](#support-for-uv-on-anyscale-is-now-in-beta "Direct link to Support for uv on Anyscale is now in beta")

**July 11, 2025**

You can now use uv to run Ray scripts and manage dependencies throughout the development lifecycle on Anyscale. See [Use uv to manage Python dependencies](/dependency-management/uv.md).

### Edit containerfiles to build custom workspace images[​](#edit-containerfiles-to-build-custom-workspace-images "Direct link to Edit containerfiles to build custom workspace images")

**July 9, 2025**

You can use containerfile syntax to edit and build the container image used to launch an Anyscale workspace. This provides additional flexibility and customization options for managing dependencies such as system packages during interactive workspace development. The feature is available as a beta release. See [Iterate on workspace container images](/dependency-management/containerfiles.md).

### Use unique container images for each job in a job queue[​](#use-unique-container-images-for-each-job-in-a-job-queue "Direct link to Use unique container images for each job in a job queue")

**July 3, 2025**

You can now define an `image_uri` for each job in a job queue. All images must use the same Ray version. When you specify an `image_uri`, you can't use other runtime environments in your job config or API calls. See [Submit jobs to persistent job queues](/jobs/queues.md).

## June 2025[​](#june-2025 "Direct link to June 2025")

Anyscale product release announcements for June 2025.

### Python 3.9 end of life[​](#python-39-end-of-life "Direct link to Python 3.9 end of life")

**June 30, 2025**

Python 3.9 reaches [end of life in October 2025](https://devguide.python.org/versions/). Anyscale won't publish new base images for Python 3.9 after this date.

### Ray 2.47.1 released[​](#ray-2471-released "Direct link to Ray 2.47.1 released")

**June 17, 2025**

Ray 2.47.1 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.47.1 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.47.1).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.5.0 released[​](#anyscale-operator-for-kubernetes-version-050-released "Direct link to Anyscale operator for Kubernetes version 0.5.0 released")

**June 12, 2025**

Anyscale has released version 0.5.0 of the Anyscale operator for Kubernetes. See release details on the [Anyscale operator GitHub page](https://github.com/anyscale/helm-charts/releases/tag/anyscale-operator-0.5.0).

### ARM virtual machine support for Anyscale on AWS[​](#arm-virtual-machine-support-for-anyscale-on-aws "Direct link to ARM virtual machine support for Anyscale on AWS")

**June 11, 2025**

Anyscale now provides non-slim base images for Ray 2.47.0 or later as multi-platform images, supporting both `x86` and `AArch64` architectures. Use these base images for ARM-based virtual machines such as AWS Graviton. See [Compare Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images/compare).

### Ray 2.47.0 released[​](#ray-2470-released "Direct link to Ray 2.47.0 released")

**June 11, 2025**

Ray 2.47.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.47.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.47.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Anyscale CLI SSH over HTTPS is generally available[​](#anyscale-cli-ssh-over-https-is-generally-available "Direct link to Anyscale CLI SSH over HTTPS is generally available")

**June 5, 2025**

You can now use the Anyscale CLI to SSH into an Anyscale workspace without opening port `22`, routing all traffic through port `443`. This functionality is generally available for all Anyscale clouds and used by default. See [`anyscale workspace_v2 ssh`](/reference/workspaces.md#anyscale-workspace_v2-ssh).

### VS Code SSH over HTTPS is beta[​](#vs-code-ssh-over-https-is-beta "Direct link to VS Code SSH over HTTPS is beta")

**June 5, 2025**

You can now use the Anyscale VS Code extension to SSH into an Anyscale workspace without opening port `22`, routing all traffic through port `443`. This functionality is available as a beta release for all Anyscale clouds. See [Configure the Anyscale workspaces VS Code extension to use SSH over HTTPS](/platform/workspaces/vscode.md#https).

## May 2025[​](#may-2025 "Direct link to May 2025")

Anyscale product release announcements for May 2025.

### Ray 2.46.0 released[​](#ray-2460-released "Direct link to Ray 2.46.0 released")

**May 7, 2025**

Ray 2.46.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.46.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.46.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

## April 2025[​](#april-2025 "Direct link to April 2025")

Anyscale product release announcements for April 2025.

### Ray Data dashboard is now available[​](#ray-data-dashboard-is-now-available "Direct link to Ray Data dashboard is now available")

**April 30, 2025**

A new dashboard experience is available for Ray Data workloads with Ray 2.44 or later. See [Ray Data dashboard](/monitoring/workload-debugging/data-dashboard.md).

### Zonal all-or-nothing scheduling[​](#zonal-all-or-nothing-scheduling "Direct link to Zonal all-or-nothing scheduling")

**April 30, 2025**

Anyscale now provisions all Ray nodes for a cluster within a single zone. If Anyscale can't get the requested minimum resources in a zone, Anyscale terminates existing nodes and tries the request in a different zone. See [Configure availability zones](/configuration/compute.md#availability-zones).

### Ray 2.45.0 released[​](#ray-2450-released "Direct link to Ray 2.45.0 released")

**April 29, 2025**

Ray 2.45.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.45.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.45.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### YuniKorn and Kueue support[​](#yunikorn-and-kueue-support "Direct link to YuniKorn and Kueue support")

**April 25, 2025**

The Anyscale operator for Kubernetes now supports YuniKorn and Kueue. See [Integrate the Anyscale operator with YuniKorn scheduler](/administration/cloud-deployment/integrate-with-yunikorn.md) and [Integrate the Anyscale operator with Kueue Scheduler](/administration/cloud-deployment/integrate-with-kueue.md).

## March 2025[​](#march-2025 "Direct link to March 2025")

Anyscale product release announcements for March 2025.

### Ray Workflows library deprecated[​](#ray-workflows-library-deprecated "Direct link to Ray Workflows library deprecated")

**March 30, 2025**

The experimental Ray Workflows library is now deprecated and scheduled for removal in an upcoming version of Ray. Contact [Anyscale support](mailto:support@anyscale.com) if you need help migrating away from workflows.

### Global Resource Scheduler for machine pools[​](#global-resource-scheduler-for-machine-pools "Direct link to Global Resource Scheduler for machine pools")

**March 30, 2025**

The Global Resource Scheduler manages prioritization and queueing for Anyscale machine pools. See [What is the global resource scheduler?](/machine-pools/global-resource-scheduler.md).

### Cloud IAM mapping[​](#cloud-iam-mapping "Direct link to Cloud IAM mapping")

**March 30, 2025**

Organization owners can now configure cloud IAM mapping to dynamically map IAM roles to Anyscale clusters. See [Anyscale cloud IAM mapping](/iam/cloud-iam-mapping.md).

### TPU support for Anyscale on GKE[​](#tpu-support-for-anyscale-on-gke "Direct link to TPU support for Anyscale on GKE")

**March 30, 2025**

Single host and multi-host TPUs are now supported in Anyscale clouds deployed on GKE. See [Leverage Cloud TPUs on GKE](/administration/cloud-deployment/leverage-cloud-tpus-on-kubernetes.md).

### Read-only permission for Anyscale clouds[​](#read-only-permission-for-anyscale-clouds "Direct link to Read-only permission for Anyscale clouds")

**March 30, 2025**

You can now set Anyscale users to a read-only role within a cloud. Read-only users can view the states of workloads but can't start or stop clusters within the cloud. See [Cloud read only](/administration/organization/permissions.md#cloud-read-only).

### Ray 2.44.1 released[​](#ray-2441-released "Direct link to Ray 2.44.1 released")

**March 27, 2025**

Ray 2.44.1 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.44.1 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.44.1).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Ray 2.44.0 released[​](#ray-2440-released "Direct link to Ray 2.44.0 released")

**March 21, 2025**

Ray 2.44.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.44.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.44.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

## February 2025[​](#february-2025 "Direct link to February 2025")

Anyscale product release announcements for February 2025.

### Custom notifications for jobs and services[​](#custom-notifications-for-jobs-and-services "Direct link to Custom notifications for jobs and services")

**February 28, 2025**

You can now create custom notifications for Anyscale job and service statuses. See [Custom job and service notifications](/administration/resource-management/custom-notifications.md).

### Ray 2.43.0 released[​](#ray-2430-released "Direct link to Ray 2.43.0 released")

**February 27, 2025**

Ray 2.43.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.43.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.43.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Ray 2.42.1 released[​](#ray-2421-released "Direct link to Ray 2.42.1 released")

**February 11, 2025**

Ray 2.42.1 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.42.1 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.42.1).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

### Deprecation of `ray-ml` base images[​](#ray-ml-deprecated "Direct link to ray-ml-deprecated")

**February 11, 2025**

Anyscale no longer builds `anyscale/ray-ml` images for Ray versions 2.36.0 or later. Existing `anyscale/ray-ml` images with earlier Ray versions remain available. For details and motivation, see the [notice to the Ray community](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues/46378).

### Ray 2.42.0 released[​](#ray-2420-released "Direct link to Ray 2.42.0 released")

**February 3, 2025**

Ray 2.42.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.42.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.42.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).

## January 2025[​](#january-2025 "Direct link to January 2025")

Anyscale product release announcements for January 2025.

### Ray 2.41.0 released[​](#ray-2410-released "Direct link to Ray 2.41.0 released")

**January 23, 2025**

Ray 2.41.0 has released and is available as an Anyscale base image.

See [Ray 2.41.0 release highlights](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/releases/tag/ray-2.41.0).

For all Python and system dependencies, see [Anyscale base images](/reference/base-images.md).
