# Source: https://docs.axonius.com/docs/whats-new-in-axonius-6137.md

# What's New in Axonius 6.1.37

#### Release Date: October 20th 2024

These Release Notes contain new features and enhancements added in version 6.1.37.

* Read [**What's New in Axonius 6.1**](/docs/whats-new-in-axonius-610) to see all Axonius 6.1 features.

* Axonius adds and updates adapters and enforcement actions all the time. Follow [Ongoing updates to adapters and enforcement actions in Axonius 6.1](/docs/axonius-61-ongoing-adapter-and-enforcement-action-updates).

## Findings Center New Features and Enhancements

### Creating Case from Findings Center

It is now possible to create a [Case based on a **Finding Rule**](/docs/creating-a-case-from-the-findings-center) directly from an Alert (with Source = Findings Center) or Rule in the Findings Center. This is in addition to the already existing method of creating a Case based on a **Simple Query** from the Case Management page.

* A Case from an Alert is on assets included in that alert.
* A Case from a Rule is on assets included in alerts generated by that Rule.

## Administrator Settings New Features and Enhancements

### System Setting Sends Notification Only When Adapter Fails to Trigger

In the following cases, a Finding is automatically created and appears in the [Findings Center - **Alerts** table](/docs/viewing-alerts):

* An adapter fails to trigger (i.e., fetch does not begin fetching within 24 hours from the time it was scheduled to fetch).
* An adapter fetch fails.
* An adapter connection fails.

When the **Send notification when a scheduled fetch failed to trigger** option is enabled in **System Settings** (under **Systems> Notifications**), each time an adapter fails to trigger altogether, a notification email is automatically sent; no email is automatically sent when an adapter fetch fails or an adapter connection fails. For these situations, it is possible to send an email only from a Rule created in the Findings Center with External Notification.

## Enforcement Center New Features and Enhancements

The following new features and enhancements were added to the Enforcement Center:

### Dynamic Value Statement Updates

The following updates were made to the Dynamic Value statement functionality:

#### relation Function

The new [*relation* function](/docs/using-functions-and-keywords#using-the-relation-function) fetches data from a field in a related asset based on a [relationship](/docs/exploring-connections-and-asset-relationships). This Relationship Field can be used in Dynamic Value statements.
**Syntax:** \[relation.\[asset type]\("\[relationship name] ").\[adapter.field]]