# Contributing

Thank you for considering improving Loguru, any contribution is much welcome!

## Automated Contributions Policy

Recent advances in artificial intelligence (AI) offer powerful tools to identify bugs and accelerate development, but their usage must remain carefully controlled.

The use of AI tools to interact with this project is welcome under the following principles:

- 

Any content generated or significantly refined by AI must be disclosed as such at the time of submission.

- 

While AI can help with drafting your PRs or issues, describing problems or questions in your own words is strongly preferred.

- 

Always review and test the output generated by AI tools. Do not submit AI output that you do not understand or cannot verify.

- 

Fully-automated contributions without human oversight, such as autonomous agents, are strictly prohibited.

PRs and issues may be closed without proper review if they do not adhere to these guidelines.

## Asking questions

If you have any question about Loguru, if you are seeking for help, or if you would like to suggest a new feature, you are encouraged to open a new issue [https://github.com/Delgan/loguru/issues/new] so we can discuss it. Bringing new ideas and pointing out elements needing clarification allows to make this library always better!

## Reporting a bug

If you encountered an unexpected behavior using Loguru, please open a new issue [https://github.com/Delgan/loguru/issues/new] and describe the problem you have spotted. Be as specific as possible in the description of the trouble so we can easily analyse it and quickly fix it.

An ideal bug report includes:

- 

The Python version you are using

- 

The Loguru version you are using (you can find it with `print(loguru.__version__)`)

- 

Your operating system name and version (Linux, MacOS, Windows)

- 

Your development environment and local setup (IDE, Terminal, project context, any relevant information that could be useful)

- 

Some minimal reproducible example [https://stackoverflow.com/help/mcve]

## Implementing changes

If you are willing to enhance Loguru by implementing non-trivial changes, please open a new issue [https://github.com/Delgan/loguru/issues/new] first to keep a reference about why such modifications are made (and potentially avoid unneeded work).

Prefer using a relatively recent Python version as some dependencies required for development may have dropped support for oldest Python versions. Then, the workflow would look as follows:

- 

Fork the Loguru [https://github.com/Delgan/loguru] project from GitHub.

- 

Clone the repository locally:

```
$ git clone git@github.com:your_name_here/loguru.git
$ cd loguru

```