# Source: https://docs.gtk.org/gdk4/

Title: Gdk-4.0

URL Source: https://docs.gtk.org/gdk4/

Markdown Content:
GDK

API Version: 4.0

Library Version: 4.23.0

Sections
Classes
Interfaces
Structs
Enumerations
Bitfields
Error Domains
Callbacks
Functions
Constants
Dependencies
GObject
Gio
GdkPixbuf
cairo
Pango

Generated by
gi-docgen
2026.1

Namespace
Gdk – 4.0

The GTK toolkit

Version	4.23.0
Authors	GTK Development Team
License	LGPL-2.1-or-later
Website	https://www.gtk.org
Source	https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gtk/
Build
C headers	gdk/gdk.h
pkg-config files	gtk4
Dependencies
GObject—2.0	The base type system library
	Browse documentation
Gio—2.0	GObject Interfaces and Objects, Networking, IPC, and I/O
	Browse documentation
GdkPixbuf—2.0	Image data loading
	Browse documentation
cairo—1.0	A 2D graphics library with support for multiple output devices
	Browse documentation
Pango—1.0	Text shaping and rendering
	Browse documentation
Related libraries
GdkWayland	GDK Wayland Backend
	Browse documentation
GdkX11	GDK X11 Backend
	Browse documentation
Additional documentation
Keyboard Codes, Groups, And Modifiers
Cairo interaction
Pango Interaction
Wayland Interaction
X Window System Interaction
macOS Interaction
Classes Hierarchy
Classes
AppLaunchContext	

Handles launching an application in a graphical context.


ButtonEvent	

An event related to a button on a pointer device.


CairoContext	

Represents the platform-specific draw context.


CicpParams	

Contains the parameters that define a colorstate with cicp parameters.

since: 4.16


Clipboard	

Represents data shared between applications or inside an application.


ContentDeserializer	

Deserializes content received via inter-application data transfers.


ContentProvider	

Provides content for the clipboard or for drag-and-drop operations in a number of formats.


ContentSerializer	

Serializes content for inter-application data transfers.


CrossingEvent	

An event caused by a pointing device moving between surfaces.


Cursor	

Used to create and destroy cursors.


DeleteEvent	

An event related to closing a top-level surface.


Device	

Represents an input device, such as a keyboard, mouse or touchpad.


DeviceTool	

A physical tool associated to a GdkDevice.


Display	

A representation of a workstation.


DisplayManager	

Offers notification when displays appear or disappear.


DmabufTexture	

A GdkTexture representing a DMA buffer.

since: 4.14


DmabufTextureBuilder	

Constructs GdkTexture objects from DMA buffers.

since: 4.14


DNDEvent	

An event related to drag and drop operations.


Drag	

Represents the source of an ongoing DND operation.


DrawContext	

Base class for objects implementing different rendering methods.


Drop	

Represents the target of an ongoing DND operation.


Event	

Represents windowing system events.


FocusEvent	

An event related to a keyboard focus change.


FrameClock	

Tells the application when to update and repaint a surface.


GLContext	

Represents a platform-specific OpenGL draw context.


GLTexture	

A GdkTexture representing a GL texture object.


GLTextureBuilder	

Constructs GdkTexture objects from GL textures.

since: 4.12


GrabBrokenEvent	

An event related to a broken windowing system grab.


KeyEvent	

An event related to a key-based device.


MemoryTexture	

A GdkTexture representing image data in memory.


MemoryTextureBuilder	

Constructs GdkTexture objects from system memory provided via GBytes.

since: 4.16


Monitor	

Represents the individual outputs that are associated with a GdkDisplay.


MotionEvent	

An event related to a pointer or touch device motion.


PadEvent	

An event related to a pad-based device.


ProximityEvent	

An event related to the proximity of a tool to a device.


ScrollEvent	

An event related to a scrolling motion.


Seat	

Represents a collection of input devices that belong to a user.


Snapshot	

Base type for snapshot operations.


Surface	

Represents a rectangular region on the screen.


Texture	

Refers to pixel data in various forms.


TouchEvent	

An event related to a touch-based device.


TouchpadEvent	

An event related to a gesture on a touchpad device.


VulkanContext	

Represents the platform-specific Vulkan draw context.

deprecated: 4.14 

Interfaces
DevicePad	

An interface for tablet pad devices.


DragSurface	

A surface that is used during DND.


Paintable	

An interface for content that can be painted.


Popup	

A surface that is attached to another surface.


Toplevel	

A freestanding toplevel surface.

Structs
ColorState	

Provides information to interpret colors and pixels in a variety of ways.

since: 4.16


ContentFormats	

Used to advertise and negotiate the format of content.


ContentFormatsBuilder	

Creates GdkContentFormats objects.


DmabufFormats	

Provides information about supported DMA buffer formats.

since: 4.14


DragSurfaceSize	

Contains information that is useful to compute the size of a drag surface.

since: 4.12


EventSequence	

An opaque type representing a sequence of related events.


FileList	

An opaque type representing a list of files.

since: 4.6


FrameTimings	

Holds timing information for a single frame of the application’s displays.


KeymapKey	

Represents a hardware key that can be mapped to a keyval.


PopupLayout	

Contains information that is necessary position a GdkPopup relative to its parent.


Rectangle	

Represents a rectangle.


RGBA	

Represents a color, in a way that is compatible with cairo’s notion of color.


TextureDownloader	

Used to download the contents of a GdkTexture.

since: 4.10


TimeCoord	

Stores a single event in a motion history.


ToplevelLayout	

Contains information that is necessary to present a sovereign window on screen.


ToplevelSize	

Contains information that is useful to compute the size of a toplevel.

Enumerations
AxisUse	

Defines how device axes are interpreted by GTK.


CicpRange	

The values of this enumeration describe whether image data uses the full range of 8-bit values.

since: 4.16


ColorChannel	

Enumerates the color channels of RGBA values as used in GdkColor and OpenGL/Vulkan shaders.

since: 4.22


CrossingMode	

Specifies the crossing mode for enter and leave events.


DevicePadFeature	

A pad feature.


DeviceToolType	

Indicates the specific type of tool being used being a tablet. Such as an airbrush, pencil, etc.


DragCancelReason	

Used in GdkDrag to the reason of a cancelled DND operation.


EventType	

Specifies the type of the event.


FullscreenMode	

Indicates which monitor a surface should span over when in fullscreen mode.


Gravity	

Defines the reference point of a surface and is used in GdkPopupLayout.


InputSource	

An enumeration describing the type of an input device in general terms.


KeyMatch	

Describes how well an event matches a given keyval and modifiers.


MemoryFormat	

Describes formats that image data can have in memory.


NotifyType	

Specifies the kind of crossing for enter and leave events.


ScrollDirection	

Specifies the direction for scroll events.


ScrollRelativeDirection	

Used in scroll events, to announce the direction relative to physical motion.

since: 4.20


ScrollUnit	

Specifies the unit of scroll deltas.

since: 4.8


SubpixelLayout	

This enumeration describes how the red, green and blue components of physical pixels on an output device are laid out.


SurfaceEdge	

Determines a surface edge or corner.


TitlebarGesture	

The kind of title bar gesture to emit with gdk_toplevel_titlebar_gesture().

since: 4.4


TouchpadGesturePhase	

Specifies the current state of a touchpad gesture.

Bitfields
AnchorHints	

Positioning hints for aligning a surface relative to a rectangle.


AxisFlags	

Flags describing the current capabilities of a device/tool.


DragAction	

Used in GdkDrop and GdkDrag to indicate the actions that the destination can and should do with the dropped data.


FrameClockPhase	

Used to represent the different paint clock phases that can be requested.


GLAPI	

The list of the different APIs that GdkGLContext can potentially support.

since: 4.6


ModifierType	

Flags to indicate the state of modifier keys and mouse buttons in events.


PaintableFlags	

Flags about a paintable object.


SeatCapabilities	

Flags describing the seat capabilities.


ToplevelCapabilities	

Reflects what features a GdkToplevel supports.

since: 4.20


ToplevelState	

Specifies the state of a toplevel surface.

Error Domains
DmabufError	

Error enumeration for GdkDmabufTexture.

since: 4.14


GLError	

Error enumeration for GdkGLContext.


TextureError	

Possible errors that can be returned by GdkTexture constructors.

since: 4.6


VulkanError	

Error enumeration for GdkVulkanContext.

Callbacks
ContentDeserializeFunc	

The type of a function that can be registered with gdk_content_register_deserializer().


ContentSerializeFunc	

The type of a function that can be registered with gdk_content_register_serializer().


CursorGetTextureCallback	

The type of callback used by a dynamic GdkCursor to generate a texture for the cursor image at the given cursor_size and scale.

Functions
cairo_draw_from_gl	

Draws GL content onto a cairo context.

deprecated: 4.6 


cairo_rectangle	

Adds the given rectangle to the current path of cr.


cairo_region	

Adds the given region to the current path of cr.


cairo_region_create_from_surface	

Creates region that covers the area where the given surface is more than 50% opaque.


cairo_set_source_pixbuf	

Sets the given pixbuf as the source pattern for cr.

deprecated: 4.20 


cairo_set_source_rgba	

Sets the specified GdkRGBA as the source color of cr.


content_deserialize_async	

Reads content from the given input stream and deserialize it, asynchronously.


content_deserialize_finish	

Finishes a content deserialization operation.


content_register_deserializer	

Registers a function to deserialize object of a given type.


content_register_serializer	

Registers a function to serialize objects of a given type.


content_serialize_async	

Serialize content and write it to the given output stream, asynchronously.


content_serialize_finish	

Finishes a content serialization operation.


events_get_angle	

Returns the relative angle from event1 to event2.


events_get_center	

Returns the point halfway between the events’ positions.


events_get_distance	

Returns the distance between the event locations.


intern_mime_type	

Canonicalizes the given mime type and interns the result.


keyval_convert_case	

Obtains the upper- and lower-case versions of the keyval symbol.


keyval_from_name	

Converts a key name to a key value.


keyval_is_lower	

Returns true if the given key value is in lower case.


keyval_is_upper	

Returns true if the given key value is in upper case.


keyval_name	

Converts a key value into a symbolic name.


keyval_to_lower	

Converts a key value to lower case, if applicable.


keyval_to_unicode	

Converts from a GDK key symbol to the corresponding Unicode character.


keyval_to_upper	

Converts a key value to upper case, if applicable.


pango_layout_get_clip_region	

Obtains a clip region which contains the areas where the given ranges of text would be drawn.


pango_layout_line_get_clip_region	

Obtains a clip region which contains the areas where the given ranges of text would be drawn.


pixbuf_get_from_surface	

Transfers image data from a cairo_surface_t and converts it to a GdkPixbuf.

deprecated: 4.12 


pixbuf_get_from_texture	

Creates a new pixbuf from texture.

deprecated: 4.12 


set_allowed_backends	

Sets a list of backends that GDK should try to use.


unicode_to_keyval	

Converts from a Unicode character to a key symbol.

Constants
ACTION_ALL	

Defines all possible DND actions.


BUTTON_MIDDLE	

The middle button.


BUTTON_PRIMARY	

The primary button. This is typically the left mouse button, or the right button in a left-handed setup.


BUTTON_SECONDARY	

The secondary button. This is typically the right mouse button, or the left button in a left-handed setup.


CURRENT_TIME	

Represents the current time, and can be used anywhere a time is expected.


EVENT_PROPAGATE	

Use this macro as the return value for continuing the propagation of an event handler.


EVENT_STOP	

Use this macro as the return value for stopping the propagation of an event handler.


KEY_0	


KEY_1	


KEY_10ChannelsDown	


KEY_10ChannelsUp	


KEY_2	


KEY_3	


KEY_3270_AltCursor	


KEY_3270_Attn	


KEY_3270_BackTab	


KEY_3270_ChangeScreen	


KEY_3270_Copy	


KEY_3270_CursorBlink	


KEY_3270_CursorSelect	


KEY_3270_DeleteWord	


KEY_3270_Duplicate	


KEY_3270_Enter	


KEY_3270_EraseEOF	


KEY_3270_EraseInput	


KEY_3270_ExSelect	


KEY_3270_FieldMark	


KEY_3270_Ident	


KEY_3270_Jump	


KEY_3270_KeyClick	


KEY_3270_Left2	


KEY_3270_PA1	


KEY_3270_PA2	


KEY_3270_PA3	


KEY_3270_Play	


KEY_3270_PrintScreen	


KEY_3270_Quit	


KEY_3270_Record	


KEY_3270_Reset	


KEY_3270_Right2	


KEY_3270_Rule	


KEY_3270_Setup	


KEY_3270_Test	


KEY_3DMode	


KEY_4	


KEY_5	


KEY_6	


KEY_7	


KEY_8	


KEY_9	


KEY_A	


KEY_a	


KEY_Aacute	


KEY_aacute	


KEY_Abelowdot	


KEY_abelowdot	


KEY_abovedot	


KEY_Abreve	


KEY_abreve	


KEY_Abreveacute	


KEY_abreveacute	


KEY_Abrevebelowdot	


KEY_abrevebelowdot	


KEY_Abrevegrave	


KEY_abrevegrave	


KEY_Abrevehook	


KEY_abrevehook	


KEY_Abrevetilde	


KEY_abrevetilde	


KEY_Accessibility	


KEY_AccessX_Enable	


KEY_AccessX_Feedback_Enable	


KEY_Acircumflex	


KEY_acircumflex	


KEY_Acircumflexacute	


KEY_acircumflexacute	


KEY_Acircumflexbelowdot	


KEY_acircumflexbelowdot	


KEY_Acircumflexgrave	


KEY_acircumflexgrave	


KEY_Acircumflexhook	


KEY_acircumflexhook	


KEY_Acircumflextilde	


KEY_acircumflextilde	


KEY_acute	


KEY_AddFavorite	


KEY_Addressbook	


KEY_Adiaeresis	


KEY_adiaeresis	


KEY_AE	


KEY_ae	


KEY_Agrave	


KEY_agrave	


KEY_Ahook	


KEY_ahook	


KEY_ALSToggle	


KEY_Alt_L	


KEY_Alt_R	


KEY_Amacron	


KEY_amacron	


KEY_ampersand	


KEY_Aogonek	


KEY_aogonek	


KEY_apostrophe	


KEY_ApplicationLeft	


KEY_ApplicationRight	


KEY_approxeq	


KEY_approximate	


KEY_AppSelect	


KEY_Arabic_0	


KEY_Arabic_1	


KEY_Arabic_2	


KEY_Arabic_3	


KEY_Arabic_4	


KEY_Arabic_5	


KEY_Arabic_6	


KEY_Arabic_7	


KEY_Arabic_8	


KEY_Arabic_9	


KEY_Arabic_ain	


KEY_Arabic_alef	


KEY_Arabic_alefmaksura	


KEY_Arabic_beh	


KEY_Arabic_comma	


KEY_Arabic_dad	


KEY_Arabic_dal	


KEY_Arabic_damma	


KEY_Arabic_dammatan	


KEY_Arabic_ddal	


KEY_Arabic_farsi_yeh	


KEY_Arabic_fatha	


KEY_Arabic_fathatan	


KEY_Arabic_feh	


KEY_Arabic_fullstop	


KEY_Arabic_gaf	


KEY_Arabic_ghain	


KEY_Arabic_ha	


KEY_Arabic_hah	


KEY_Arabic_hamza	


KEY_Arabic_hamza_above	


KEY_Arabic_hamza_below	


KEY_Arabic_hamzaonalef	


KEY_Arabic_hamzaonwaw	


KEY_Arabic_hamzaonyeh	


KEY_Arabic_hamzaunderalef	


KEY_Arabic_heh	


KEY_Arabic_heh_doachashmee	


KEY_Arabic_heh_goal	


KEY_Arabic_jeem	


KEY_Arabic_jeh	


KEY_Arabic_kaf	


KEY_Arabic_kasra	


KEY_Arabic_kasratan	


KEY_Arabic_keheh	


KEY_Arabic_khah	


KEY_Arabic_lam	


KEY_Arabic_madda_above	


KEY_Arabic_maddaonalef	


KEY_Arabic_meem	


KEY_Arabic_noon	


KEY_Arabic_noon_ghunna	


KEY_Arabic_peh	


KEY_Arabic_percent	


KEY_Arabic_qaf	


KEY_Arabic_question_mark	


KEY_Arabic_ra	


KEY_Arabic_rreh	


KEY_Arabic_sad	


KEY_Arabic_seen	


KEY_Arabic_semicolon	


KEY_Arabic_shadda	


KEY_Arabic_sheen	


KEY_Arabic_sukun	


KEY_Arabic_superscript_alef	


KEY_Arabic_switch	


KEY_Arabic_tah	


KEY_Arabic_tatweel	


KEY_Arabic_tcheh	


KEY_Arabic_teh	


KEY_Arabic_tehmarbuta	


KEY_Arabic_thal	


KEY_Arabic_theh	


KEY_Arabic_tteh	


KEY_Arabic_veh	


KEY_Arabic_waw	


KEY_Arabic_yeh	


KEY_Arabic_yeh_baree	


KEY_Arabic_zah	


KEY_Arabic_zain	


KEY_Aring	


KEY_aring	


KEY_Armenian_accent	


KEY_Armenian_amanak	


KEY_Armenian_apostrophe	


KEY_Armenian_AT	


KEY_Armenian_at	


KEY_Armenian_AYB	


KEY_Armenian_ayb	


KEY_Armenian_BEN	


KEY_Armenian_ben	


KEY_Armenian_but	


KEY_Armenian_CHA	


KEY_Armenian_cha	


KEY_Armenian_DA	


KEY_Armenian_da	


KEY_Armenian_DZA	


KEY_Armenian_dza	


KEY_Armenian_E	


KEY_Armenian_e	


KEY_Armenian_exclam	


KEY_Armenian_FE	


KEY_Armenian_fe	


KEY_Armenian_full_stop	


KEY_Armenian_GHAT	


KEY_Armenian_ghat	


KEY_Armenian_GIM	


KEY_Armenian_gim	


KEY_Armenian_HI	


KEY_Armenian_hi	


KEY_Armenian_HO	


KEY_Armenian_ho	


KEY_Armenian_hyphen	


KEY_Armenian_INI	


KEY_Armenian_ini	


KEY_Armenian_JE	


KEY_Armenian_je	


KEY_Armenian_KE	


KEY_Armenian_ke	


KEY_Armenian_KEN	


KEY_Armenian_ken	


KEY_Armenian_KHE	


KEY_Armenian_khe	


KEY_Armenian_ligature_ew	


KEY_Armenian_LYUN	


KEY_Armenian_lyun	


KEY_Armenian_MEN	


KEY_Armenian_men	


KEY_Armenian_NU	


KEY_Armenian_nu	


KEY_Armenian_O	


KEY_Armenian_o	


KEY_Armenian_paruyk	


KEY_Armenian_PE	


KEY_Armenian_pe	


KEY_Armenian_PYUR	


KEY_Armenian_pyur	


KEY_Armenian_question	


KEY_Armenian_RA	


KEY_Armenian_ra	


KEY_Armenian_RE	


KEY_Armenian_re	


KEY_Armenian_SE	


KEY_Armenian_se	


KEY_Armenian_separation_mark	


KEY_Armenian_SHA	


KEY_Armenian_sha	


KEY_Armenian_shesht	


KEY_Armenian_TCHE	


KEY_Armenian_tche	


KEY_Armenian_TO	


KEY_Armenian_to	


KEY_Armenian_TSA	


KEY_Armenian_tsa	


KEY_Armenian_TSO	


KEY_Armenian_tso	


KEY_Armenian_TYUN	


KEY_Armenian_tyun	


KEY_Armenian_verjaket	


KEY_Armenian_VEV	


KEY_Armenian_vev	


KEY_Armenian_VO	


KEY_Armenian_vo	


KEY_Armenian_VYUN	


KEY_Armenian_vyun	


KEY_Armenian_YECH	


KEY_Armenian_yech	


KEY_Armenian_yentamna	


KEY_Armenian_ZA	


KEY_Armenian_za	


KEY_Armenian_ZHE	


KEY_Armenian_zhe	


KEY_asciicircum	


KEY_asciitilde	


KEY_AspectRatio	


KEY_Assistant	


KEY_asterisk	


KEY_at	


KEY_Atilde	


KEY_atilde	


KEY_AttendantOff	


KEY_AttendantOn	


KEY_AttendantToggle	


KEY_AudibleBell_Enable	


KEY_Audio	


KEY_AudioCycleTrack	


KEY_AudioDesc	


KEY_AudioForward	


KEY_AudioLowerVolume	


KEY_AudioMedia	


KEY_AudioMicMute	


KEY_AudioMute	


KEY_AudioNext	


KEY_AudioPause	


KEY_AudioPlay	


KEY_AudioPreset	


KEY_AudioPrev	


KEY_AudioRaiseVolume	


KEY_AudioRandomPlay	


KEY_AudioRecord	


KEY_AudioRepeat	


KEY_AudioRewind	


KEY_AudioStop	


KEY_AutopilotEngageToggle	


KEY_Away	


KEY_B	


KEY_b	


KEY_Babovedot	


KEY_babovedot	


KEY_Back	


KEY_BackForward	


KEY_backslash	


KEY_BackSpace	


KEY_ballotcross	


KEY_bar	


KEY_Battery	


KEY_because	


KEY_Begin	


KEY_blank	


KEY_Blue	


KEY_Bluetooth	


KEY_Book	


KEY_botintegral	


KEY_botleftparens	


KEY_botleftsqbracket	


KEY_botleftsummation	


KEY_botrightparens	


KEY_botrightsqbracket	


KEY_botrightsummation	


KEY_bott	


KEY_botvertsummationconnector	


KEY_BounceKeys_Enable	


KEY_braceleft	


KEY_braceright	


KEY_bracketleft	


KEY_bracketright	


KEY_braille_blank	


KEY_braille_dot_1	


KEY_braille_dot_10	


KEY_braille_dot_2	


KEY_braille_dot_3	


KEY_braille_dot_4	


KEY_braille_dot_5	


KEY_braille_dot_6	


KEY_braille_dot_7	


KEY_braille_dot_8	


KEY_braille_dot_9	


KEY_braille_dots_1	


KEY_braille_dots_12	


KEY_braille_dots_123	


KEY_braille_dots_1234	


KEY_braille_dots_12345	


KEY_braille_dots_123456	


KEY_braille_dots_1234567	


KEY_braille_dots_12345678	


KEY_braille_dots_1234568	


KEY_braille_dots_123457	


KEY_braille_dots_1234578	


KEY_braille_dots_123458	


KEY_braille_dots_12346	


KEY_braille_dots_123467	


KEY_braille_dots_1234678	


KEY_braille_dots_123468	


KEY_braille_dots_12347	


KEY_braille_dots_123478	


KEY_braille_dots_12348	


KEY_braille_dots_1235	


KEY_braille_dots_12356	


KEY_braille_dots_123567	


KEY_braille_dots_1235678	


KEY_braille_dots_123568	


KEY_braille_dots_12357	


KEY_braille_dots_123578	


KEY_braille_dots_12358	


KEY_braille_dots_1236	


KEY_braille_dots_12367	


KEY_braille_dots_123678	


KEY_braille_dots_12368	


KEY_braille_dots_1237	


KEY_braille_dots_12378	


KEY_braille_dots_1238	


KEY_braille_dots_124	


KEY_braille_dots_1245	


KEY_braille_dots_12456	


KEY_braille_dots_124567	


KEY_braille_dots_1245678	


KEY_braille_dots_124568	


KEY_braille_dots_12457	


KEY_braille_dots_124578	


KEY_braille_dots_12458	


KEY_braille_dots_1246	


KEY_braille_dots_12467	


KEY_braille_dots_124678	


KEY_braille_dots_12468	


KEY_braille_dots_1247	


KEY_braille_dots_12478	


KEY_braille_dots_1248	


KEY_braille_dots_125	


KEY_braille_dots_1256	


KEY_braille_dots_12567	


KEY_braille_dots_125678	


KEY_braille_dots_12568	


KEY_braille_dots_1257	


KEY_braille_dots_12578	


KEY_braille_dots_1258	


KEY_braille_dots_126	


KEY_braille_dots_1267	


KEY_braille_dots_12678	


KEY_braille_dots_1268	


KEY_braille_dots_127	


KEY_braille_dots_1278	


KEY_braille_dots_128	


KEY_braille_dots_13	


KEY_braille_dots_134	


KEY_braille_dots_1345	


KEY_braille_dots_13456	


KEY_braille_dots_134567	


KEY_braille_dots_1345678	


KEY_braille_dots_134568	


KEY_braille_dots_13457	


KEY_braille_dots_134578	


KEY_braille_dots_13458	


KEY_braille_dots_1346	


KEY_braille_dots_13467	


KEY_braille_dots_134678	


KEY_braille_dots_13468	


KEY_braille_dots_1347	


KEY_braille_dots_13478	


KEY_braille_dots_1348	


KEY_braille_dots_135	


KEY_braille_dots_1356	


KEY_braille_dots_13567	


KEY_braille_dots_135678	


KEY_braille_dots_13568	


KEY_braille_dots_1357	


KEY_braille_dots_13578	


KEY_braille_dots_1358	


KEY_braille_dots_136	


KEY_braille_dots_1367	


KEY_braille_dots_13678	


KEY_braille_dots_1368	


KEY_braille_dots_137	


KEY_braille_dots_1378	


KEY_braille_dots_138	


KEY_braille_dots_14	


KEY_braille_dots_145	


KEY_braille_dots_1456	


KEY_braille_dots_14567	


KEY_braille_dots_145678	


KEY_braille_dots_14568	


KEY_braille_dots_1457	


KEY_braille_dots_14578	


KEY_braille_dots_1458	


KEY_braille_dots_146	


KEY_braille_dots_1467	


KEY_braille_dots_14678	


KEY_braille_dots_1468	


KEY_braille_dots_147	


KEY_braille_dots_1478	


KEY_braille_dots_148	


KEY_braille_dots_15	


KEY_braille_dots_156	


KEY_braille_dots_1567	


KEY_braille_dots_15678	


KEY_braille_dots_1568	


KEY_braille_dots_157	


KEY_braille_dots_1578	


KEY_braille_dots_158	


KEY_braille_dots_16	


KEY_braille_dots_167	


KEY_braille_dots_1678	


KEY_braille_dots_168	


KEY_braille_dots_17	


KEY_braille_dots_178	


KEY_braille_dots_18	


KEY_braille_dots_2	


KEY_braille_dots_23	


KEY_braille_dots_234	


KEY_braille_dots_2345	


KEY_braille_dots_23456	


KEY_braille_dots_234567	


KEY_braille_dots_2345678	


KEY_braille_dots_234568	


KEY_braille_dots_23457	


KEY_braille_dots_234578	


KEY_braille_dots_23458	


KEY_braille_dots_2346	


KEY_braille_dots_23467	


KEY_braille_dots_234678	


KEY_braille_dots_23468	


KEY_braille_dots_2347	


KEY_braille_dots_23478	


KEY_braille_dots_2348	


KEY_braille_dots_235	


KEY_braille_dots_2356	


KEY_braille_dots_23567	


KEY_braille_dots_235678	


KEY_braille_dots_23568	


KEY_braille_dots_2357	


KEY_braille_dots_23578	


KEY_braille_dots_2358	


KEY_braille_dots_236	


KEY_braille_dots_2367	


KEY_braille_dots_23678	


KEY_braille_dots_2368	


KEY_braille_dots_237	


KEY_braille_dots_2378	


KEY_braille_dots_238	


KEY_braille_dots_24	


KEY_braille_dots_245	


KEY_braille_dots_2456	


KEY_braille_dots_24567	


KEY_braille_dots_245678	


KEY_braille_dots_24568	


KEY_braille_dots_2457	


KEY_braille_dots_24578	


KEY_braille_dots_2458	


KEY_braille_dots_246	


KEY_braille_dots_2467	


KEY_braille_dots_24678	


KEY_braille_dots_2468	


KEY_braille_dots_247	


KEY_braille_dots_2478	


KEY_braille_dots_248	


KEY_braille_dots_25	


KEY_braille_dots_256	


KEY_braille_dots_2567	


KEY_braille_dots_25678	


KEY_braille_dots_2568	


KEY_braille_dots_257	


KEY_braille_dots_2578	


KEY_braille_dots_258	


KEY_braille_dots_26	


KEY_braille_dots_267	


KEY_braille_dots_2678	


KEY_braille_dots_268	


KEY_braille_dots_27	


KEY_braille_dots_278	


KEY_braille_dots_28	


KEY_braille_dots_3	


KEY_braille_dots_34	


KEY_braille_dots_345	


KEY_braille_dots_3456	


KEY_braille_dots_34567	


KEY_braille_dots_345678	


KEY_braille_dots_34568	


KEY_braille_dots_3457	


KEY_braille_dots_34578	


KEY_braille_dots_3458	


KEY_braille_dots_346	


KEY_braille_dots_3467	


KEY_braille_dots_34678	


KEY_braille_dots_3468	


KEY_braille_dots_347	


KEY_braille_dots_3478	


KEY_braille_dots_348	


KEY_braille_dots_35	


KEY_braille_dots_356	


KEY_braille_dots_3567	


KEY_braille_dots_35678	


KEY_braille_dots_3568	


KEY_braille_dots_357	


KEY_braille_dots_3578	


KEY_braille_dots_358	


KEY_braille_dots_36	


KEY_braille_dots_367	


KEY_braille_dots_3678	


KEY_braille_dots_368	


KEY_braille_dots_37	


KEY_braille_dots_378	


KEY_braille_dots_38	


KEY_braille_dots_4	


KEY_braille_dots_45	


KEY_braille_dots_456	


KEY_braille_dots_4567	


KEY_braille_dots_45678	


KEY_braille_dots_4568	


KEY_braille_dots_457	


KEY_braille_dots_4578	


KEY_braille_dots_458	


KEY_braille_dots_46	


KEY_braille_dots_467	


KEY_braille_dots_4678	


KEY_braille_dots_468	


KEY_braille_dots_47	


KEY_braille_dots_478	


KEY_braille_dots_48	


KEY_braille_dots_5	


KEY_braille_dots_56	


KEY_braille_dots_567	


KEY_braille_dots_5678	


KEY_braille_dots_568	


KEY_braille_dots_57	


KEY_braille_dots_578	


KEY_braille_dots_58	


KEY_braille_dots_6	


KEY_braille_dots_67	


KEY_braille_dots_678	


KEY_braille_dots_68	


KEY_braille_dots_7	


KEY_braille_dots_78	


KEY_braille_dots_8	


KEY_Break	


KEY_breve	


KEY_BrightnessAdjust	


KEY_BrightnessAuto	


KEY_BrightnessMax	


KEY_BrightnessMin	


KEY_brokenbar	


KEY_Buttonconfig	


KEY_Byelorussian_SHORTU	


KEY_Byelorussian_shortu	


KEY_C	


KEY_c	


KEY_C_H	


KEY_C_h	


KEY_c_h	


KEY_Cabovedot	


KEY_cabovedot	


KEY_Cacute	


KEY_cacute	


KEY_Calculator	


KEY_Calendar	


KEY_CameraAccessDisable	


KEY_CameraAccessEnable	


KEY_CameraAccessToggle	


KEY_CameraDown	


KEY_CameraFocus	


KEY_CameraLeft	


KEY_CameraRight	


KEY_CameraUp	


KEY_CameraZoomIn	


KEY_CameraZoomOut	


KEY_Cancel	


KEY_Caps_Lock	


KEY_careof	


KEY_caret	


KEY_caron	


KEY_Ccaron	


KEY_ccaron	


KEY_Ccedilla	


KEY_ccedilla	


KEY_Ccircumflex	


KEY_ccircumflex	


KEY_CD	


KEY_cedilla	


KEY_cent	


KEY_CH	


KEY_Ch	


KEY_ch	


KEY_ChannelDown	


KEY_ChannelUp	


KEY_checkerboard	


KEY_checkmark	


KEY_circle	


KEY_Clear	


KEY_ClearGrab	


KEY_ClearvuSonar	


KEY_Close	


KEY_club	


KEY_Codeinput	


KEY_colon	


KEY_ColonSign	


KEY_combining_acute	


KEY_combining_belowdot	


KEY_combining_grave	


KEY_combining_hook	


KEY_combining_tilde	


KEY_comma	


KEY_Community	


KEY_containsas	


KEY_ContextMenu	


KEY_ContrastAdjust	


KEY_Control_L	


KEY_Control_R	


KEY_ControlPanel	


KEY_Copy	


KEY_copyright	


KEY_cr	


KEY_crossinglines	


KEY_CruzeiroSign	


KEY_cuberoot	


KEY_currency	


KEY_cursor	


KEY_Cut	


KEY_CycleAngle	


KEY_Cyrillic_A	


KEY_Cyrillic_a	


KEY_Cyrillic_BE	


KEY_Cyrillic_be	


KEY_Cyrillic_CHE	


KEY_Cyrillic_che	


KEY_Cyrillic_CHE_descender	


KEY_Cyrillic_che_descender	


KEY_Cyrillic_CHE_vertstroke	


KEY_Cyrillic_che_vertstroke	


KEY_Cyrillic_DE	


KEY_Cyrillic_de	


KEY_Cyrillic_DZHE	


KEY_Cyrillic_dzhe	


KEY_Cyrillic_E	


KEY_Cyrillic_e	


KEY_Cyrillic_EF	


KEY_Cyrillic_ef	


KEY_Cyrillic_EL	


KEY_Cyrillic_el	


KEY_Cyrillic_EM	


KEY_Cyrillic_em	


KEY_Cyrillic_EN	


KEY_Cyrillic_en	


KEY_Cyrillic_EN_descender	


KEY_Cyrillic_en_descender	


KEY_Cyrillic_ER	


KEY_Cyrillic_er	


KEY_Cyrillic_ES	


KEY_Cyrillic_es	


KEY_Cyrillic_GHE	


KEY_Cyrillic_ghe	


KEY_Cyrillic_GHE_bar	


KEY_Cyrillic_ghe_bar	


KEY_Cyrillic_HA	


KEY_Cyrillic_ha	


KEY_Cyrillic_HA_descender	


KEY_Cyrillic_ha_descender	


KEY_Cyrillic_HARDSIGN	


KEY_Cyrillic_hardsign	


KEY_Cyrillic_I	


KEY_Cyrillic_i	


KEY_Cyrillic_I_macron	


KEY_Cyrillic_i_macron	


KEY_Cyrillic_IE	


KEY_Cyrillic_ie	


KEY_Cyrillic_IO	


KEY_Cyrillic_io	


KEY_Cyrillic_JE	


KEY_Cyrillic_je	


KEY_Cyrillic_KA	


KEY_Cyrillic_ka	


KEY_Cyrillic_KA_descender	


KEY_Cyrillic_ka_descender	


KEY_Cyrillic_KA_vertstroke	


KEY_Cyrillic_ka_vertstroke	


KEY_Cyrillic_LJE	


KEY_Cyrillic_lje	


KEY_Cyrillic_NJE	


KEY_Cyrillic_nje	


KEY_Cyrillic_O	


KEY_Cyrillic_o	


KEY_Cyrillic_O_bar	


KEY_Cyrillic_o_bar	


KEY_Cyrillic_PE	


KEY_Cyrillic_pe	


KEY_Cyrillic_SCHWA	


KEY_Cyrillic_schwa	


KEY_Cyrillic_SHA	


KEY_Cyrillic_sha	


KEY_Cyrillic_SHCHA	


KEY_Cyrillic_shcha	


KEY_Cyrillic_SHHA	


KEY_Cyrillic_shha	


KEY_Cyrillic_SHORTI	


KEY_Cyrillic_shorti	


KEY_Cyrillic_SOFTSIGN	


KEY_Cyrillic_softsign	


KEY_Cyrillic_TE	


KEY_Cyrillic_te	


KEY_Cyrillic_TSE	


KEY_Cyrillic_tse	


KEY_Cyrillic_U	


KEY_Cyrillic_u	


KEY_Cyrillic_U_macron	


KEY_Cyrillic_u_macron	


KEY_Cyrillic_U_straight	


KEY_Cyrillic_u_straight	


KEY_Cyrillic_U_straight_bar	


KEY_Cyrillic_u_straight_bar	


KEY_Cyrillic_VE	


KEY_Cyrillic_ve	


KEY_Cyrillic_YA	


KEY_Cyrillic_ya	


KEY_Cyrillic_YERU	


KEY_Cyrillic_yeru	


KEY_Cyrillic_YU	


KEY_Cyrillic_yu	


KEY_Cyrillic_ZE	


KEY_Cyrillic_ze	


KEY_Cyrillic_ZHE	


KEY_Cyrillic_zhe	


KEY_Cyrillic_ZHE_descender	


KEY_Cyrillic_zhe_descender	


KEY_D	


KEY_d	


KEY_Dabovedot	


KEY_dabovedot	


KEY_dagger	


KEY_Data	


KEY_Database	


KEY_Dcaron	


KEY_dcaron	


KEY_dead_A	


KEY_dead_a	


KEY_dead_abovecomma	


KEY_dead_abovedot	


KEY_dead_abovereversedcomma	


KEY_dead_abovering	


KEY_dead_aboveverticalline	


KEY_dead_acute	


KEY_dead_belowbreve	


KEY_dead_belowcircumflex	


KEY_dead_belowcomma	


KEY_dead_belowdiaeresis	


KEY_dead_belowdot	


KEY_dead_belowmacron	


KEY_dead_belowring	


KEY_dead_belowtilde	


KEY_dead_belowverticalline	


KEY_dead_breve	


KEY_dead_capital_schwa	


KEY_dead_caron	


KEY_dead_cedilla	


KEY_dead_circumflex	


KEY_dead_currency	


KEY_dead_dasia	


KEY_dead_diaeresis	


KEY_dead_doubleacute	


KEY_dead_doublegrave	


KEY_dead_E	


KEY_dead_e	


KEY_dead_grave	


KEY_dead_greek	


KEY_dead_hamza	


KEY_dead_hook	


KEY_dead_horn	


KEY_dead_I	


KEY_dead_i	


KEY_dead_invertedbreve	


KEY_dead_iota	


KEY_dead_longsolidusoverlay	


KEY_dead_lowline	


KEY_dead_macron	


KEY_dead_O	


KEY_dead_o	


KEY_dead_ogonek	


KEY_dead_perispomeni	


KEY_dead_psili	


KEY_dead_SCHWA	


KEY_dead_schwa	


KEY_dead_semivoiced_sound	


KEY_dead_small_schwa	


KEY_dead_stroke	


KEY_dead_tilde	


KEY_dead_U	


KEY_dead_u	


KEY_dead_voiced_sound	


KEY_decimalpoint	


KEY_degree	


KEY_Delete	


KEY_diaeresis	


KEY_diamond	


KEY_Dictate	


KEY_digitspace	


KEY_dintegral	


KEY_Display	


KEY_DisplayOff	


KEY_DisplayToggle	


KEY_division	


KEY_Documents	


KEY_dollar	


KEY_DongSign	


KEY_DoNotDisturb	


KEY_DOS	


KEY_doubbaselinedot	


KEY_doubleacute	


KEY_doubledagger	


KEY_doublelowquotemark	


KEY_Down	


KEY_downarrow	


KEY_downcaret	


KEY_downshoe	


KEY_downstile	


KEY_downtack	


KEY_Dstroke	


KEY_dstroke	


KEY_DualRangeRadar	


KEY_DVD	


KEY_E	


KEY_e	


KEY_Eabovedot	


KEY_eabovedot	


KEY_Eacute	


KEY_eacute	


KEY_Ebelowdot	


KEY_ebelowdot	


KEY_Ecaron	


KEY_ecaron	


KEY_Ecircumflex	


KEY_ecircumflex	


KEY_Ecircumflexacute	


KEY_ecircumflexacute	


KEY_Ecircumflexbelowdot	


KEY_ecircumflexbelowdot	


KEY_Ecircumflexgrave	


KEY_ecircumflexgrave	


KEY_Ecircumflexhook	


KEY_ecircumflexhook	


KEY_Ecircumflextilde	


KEY_ecircumflextilde	


KEY_EcuSign	


KEY_Ediaeresis	


KEY_ediaeresis	


KEY_Editor	


KEY_Egrave	


KEY_egrave	


KEY_Ehook	


KEY_ehook	


KEY_eightsubscript	


KEY_eightsuperior	


KEY_Eisu_Shift	


KEY_Eisu_toggle	


KEY_Eject	


KEY_elementof	


KEY_ellipsis	


KEY_em3space	


KEY_em4space	


KEY_Emacron	


KEY_emacron	


KEY_emdash	


KEY_emfilledcircle	


KEY_emfilledrect	


KEY_EmojiPicker	


KEY_emopencircle	


KEY_emopenrectangle	


KEY_emptyset	


KEY_emspace	


KEY_End	


KEY_endash	


KEY_enfilledcircbullet	


KEY_enfilledsqbullet	


KEY_ENG	


KEY_eng	


KEY_enopencircbullet	


KEY_enopensquarebullet	


KEY_enspace	


KEY_Eogonek	


KEY_eogonek	


KEY_equal	


KEY_Escape	


KEY_ETH	


KEY_Eth	


KEY_eth	


KEY_Etilde	


KEY_etilde	


KEY_EuroSign	


KEY_Excel	


KEY_exclam	


KEY_exclamdown	


KEY_Execute	


KEY_Explorer	


KEY_EZH	


KEY_ezh	


KEY_F	


KEY_f	


KEY_F1	


KEY_F10	


KEY_F11	


KEY_F12	


KEY_F13	


KEY_F14	


KEY_F15	


KEY_F16	


KEY_F17	


KEY_F18	


KEY_F19	


KEY_F2	


KEY_F20	


KEY_F21	


KEY_F22	


KEY_F23	


KEY_F24	


KEY_F25	


KEY_F26	


KEY_F27	


KEY_F28	


KEY_F29	


KEY_F3	


KEY_F30	


KEY_F31	


KEY_F32	


KEY_F33	


KEY_F34	


KEY_F35	


KEY_F4	


KEY_F5	


KEY_F6	


KEY_F7	


KEY_F8	


KEY_F9	


KEY_Fabovedot	


KEY_fabovedot	


KEY_Farsi_0	


KEY_Farsi_1	


KEY_Farsi_2	


KEY_Farsi_3	


KEY_Farsi_4	


KEY_Farsi_5	


KEY_Farsi_6	


KEY_Farsi_7	


KEY_Farsi_8	


KEY_Farsi_9	


KEY_Farsi_yeh	


KEY_FastReverse	


KEY_Favorites	


KEY_femalesymbol	


KEY_ff	


KEY_FFrancSign	


KEY_figdash	


KEY_filledlefttribullet	


KEY_filledrectbullet	


KEY_filledrighttribullet	


KEY_filledtribulletdown	


KEY_filledtribulletup	


KEY_Finance	


KEY_Find	


KEY_First_Virtual_Screen	


KEY_FishingChart	


KEY_fiveeighths	


KEY_fivesixths	


KEY_fivesubscript	


KEY_fivesuperior	


KEY_Fn	


KEY_Fn_Esc	


KEY_FnRightShift	


KEY_Forward	


KEY_fourfifths	


KEY_foursubscript	


KEY_foursuperior	


KEY_fourthroot	


KEY_FrameBack	


KEY_FrameForward	


KEY_FullScreen	


KEY_function	


KEY_G	


KEY_g	


KEY_Gabovedot	


KEY_gabovedot	


KEY_Game	


KEY_Gbreve	


KEY_gbreve	


KEY_Gcaron	


KEY_gcaron	


KEY_Gcedilla	


KEY_gcedilla	


KEY_Gcircumflex	


KEY_gcircumflex	


KEY_Georgian_an	


KEY_Georgian_ban	


KEY_Georgian_can	


KEY_Georgian_char	


KEY_Georgian_chin	


KEY_Georgian_cil	


KEY_Georgian_don	


KEY_Georgian_en	


KEY_Georgian_fi	


KEY_Georgian_gan	


KEY_Georgian_ghan	


KEY_Georgian_hae	


KEY_Georgian_har	


KEY_Georgian_he	


KEY_Georgian_hie	


KEY_Georgian_hoe	


KEY_Georgian_in	


KEY_Georgian_jhan	


KEY_Georgian_jil	


KEY_Georgian_kan	


KEY_Georgian_khar	


KEY_Georgian_las	


KEY_Georgian_man	


KEY_Georgian_nar	


KEY_Georgian_on	


KEY_Georgian_par	


KEY_Georgian_phar	


KEY_Georgian_qar	


KEY_Georgian_rae	


KEY_Georgian_san	


KEY_Georgian_shin	


KEY_Georgian_tan	


KEY_Georgian_tar	


KEY_Georgian_un	


KEY_Georgian_vin	


KEY_Georgian_we	


KEY_Georgian_xan	


KEY_Georgian_zen	


KEY_Georgian_zhar	


KEY_Go	


KEY_GraphicsEditor	


KEY_grave	


KEY_greater	


KEY_greaterthanequal	


KEY_Greek_accentdieresis	


KEY_Greek_ALPHA	


KEY_Greek_alpha	


KEY_Greek_ALPHAaccent	


KEY_Greek_alphaaccent	


KEY_Greek_BETA	


KEY_Greek_beta	


KEY_Greek_CHI	


KEY_Greek_chi	


KEY_Greek_DELTA	


KEY_Greek_delta	


KEY_Greek_EPSILON	


KEY_Greek_epsilon	


KEY_Greek_EPSILONaccent	


KEY_Greek_epsilonaccent	


KEY_Greek_ETA	


KEY_Greek_eta	


KEY_Greek_ETAaccent	


KEY_Greek_etaaccent	


KEY_Greek_finalsmallsigma	


KEY_Greek_GAMMA	


KEY_Greek_gamma	


KEY_Greek_horizbar	


KEY_Greek_IOTA	


KEY_Greek_iota	


KEY_Greek_IOTAaccent	


KEY_Greek_iotaaccent	


KEY_Greek_iotaaccentdieresis	


KEY_Greek_IOTAdiaeresis	


KEY_Greek_IOTAdieresis	


KEY_Greek_iotadieresis	


KEY_Greek_KAPPA	


KEY_Greek_kappa	


KEY_Greek_LAMBDA	


KEY_Greek_lambda	


KEY_Greek_LAMDA	


KEY_Greek_lamda	


KEY_Greek_MU	


KEY_Greek_mu	


KEY_Greek_NU	


KEY_Greek_nu	


KEY_Greek_OMEGA	


KEY_Greek_omega	


KEY_Greek_OMEGAaccent	


KEY_Greek_omegaaccent	


KEY_Greek_OMICRON	


KEY_Greek_omicron	


KEY_Greek_OMICRONaccent	


KEY_Greek_omicronaccent	


KEY_Greek_PHI	


KEY_Greek_phi	


KEY_Greek_PI	


KEY_Greek_pi	


KEY_Greek_PSI	


KEY_Greek_psi	


KEY_Greek_RHO	


KEY_Greek_rho	


KEY_Greek_SIGMA	


KEY_Greek_sigma	


KEY_Greek_switch	


KEY_Greek_TAU	


KEY_Greek_tau	


KEY_Greek_THETA	


KEY_Greek_theta	


KEY_Greek_UPSILON	


KEY_Greek_upsilon	


KEY_Greek_UPSILONaccent	


KEY_Greek_upsilonaccent	


KEY_Greek_upsilonaccentdieresis	


KEY_Greek_UPSILONdieresis	


KEY_Greek_upsilondieresis	


KEY_Greek_XI	


KEY_Greek_xi	


KEY_Greek_ZETA	


KEY_Greek_zeta	


KEY_Green	


KEY_guillemetleft	


KEY_guillemetright	


KEY_guillemotleft	


KEY_guillemotright	


KEY_H	


KEY_h	


KEY_hairspace	


KEY_Hangul	


KEY_Hangul_A	


KEY_Hangul_AE	


KEY_Hangul_AraeA	


KEY_Hangul_AraeAE	


KEY_Hangul_Banja	


KEY_Hangul_Cieuc	


KEY_Hangul_Codeinput	


KEY_Hangul_Dikeud	


KEY_Hangul_E	


KEY_Hangul_End	


KEY_Hangul_EO	


KEY_Hangul_EU	


KEY_Hangul_Hanja	


KEY_Hangul_Hieuh	


KEY_Hangul_I	


KEY_Hangul_Ieung	


KEY_Hangul_J_Cieuc	


KEY_Hangul_J_Dikeud	


KEY_Hangul_J_Hieuh	


KEY_Hangul_J_Ieung	


KEY_Hangul_J_Jieuj	


KEY_Hangul_J_Khieuq	


KEY_Hangul_J_Kiyeog	


KEY_Hangul_J_KiyeogSios	


KEY_Hangul_J_KkogjiDalrinIeung	


KEY_Hangul_J_Mieum	


KEY_Hangul_J_Nieun	


KEY_Hangul_J_NieunHieuh	


KEY_Hangul_J_NieunJieuj	


KEY_Hangul_J_PanSios	


KEY_Hangul_J_Phieuf	


KEY_Hangul_J_Pieub	


KEY_Hangul_J_PieubSios	


KEY_Hangul_J_Rieul	


KEY_Hangul_J_RieulHieuh	


KEY_Hangul_J_RieulKiyeog	


KEY_Hangul_J_RieulMieum	


KEY_Hangul_J_RieulPhieuf	


KEY_Hangul_J_RieulPieub	


KEY_Hangul_J_RieulSios	


KEY_Hangul_J_RieulTieut	


KEY_Hangul_J_Sios	


KEY_Hangul_J_SsangKiyeog	


KEY_Hangul_J_SsangSios	


KEY_Hangul_J_Tieut	


KEY_Hangul_J_YeorinHieuh	


KEY_Hangul_Jamo	


KEY_Hangul_Jeonja	


KEY_Hangul_Jieuj	


KEY_Hangul_Khieuq	


KEY_Hangul_Kiyeog	


KEY_Hangul_KiyeogSios	


KEY_Hangul_KkogjiDalrinIeung	


KEY_Hangul_Mieum	


KEY_Hangul_MultipleCandidate	


KEY_Hangul_Nieun	


KEY_Hangul_NieunHieuh	


KEY_Hangul_NieunJieuj	


KEY_Hangul_O	


KEY_Hangul_OE	


KEY_Hangul_PanSios	


KEY_Hangul_Phieuf	


KEY_Hangul_Pieub	


KEY_Hangul_PieubSios	


KEY_Hangul_PostHanja	


KEY_Hangul_PreHanja	


KEY_Hangul_PreviousCandidate	


KEY_Hangul_Rieul	


KEY_Hangul_RieulHieuh	


KEY_Hangul_RieulKiyeog	


KEY_Hangul_RieulMieum	


KEY_Hangul_RieulPhieuf	


KEY_Hangul_RieulPieub	


KEY_Hangul_RieulSios	


KEY_Hangul_RieulTieut	


KEY_Hangul_RieulYeorinHieuh	


KEY_Hangul_Romaja	


KEY_Hangul_SingleCandidate	


KEY_Hangul_Sios	


KEY_Hangul_Special	


KEY_Hangul_SsangDikeud	


KEY_Hangul_SsangJieuj	


KEY_Hangul_SsangKiyeog	


KEY_Hangul_SsangPieub	


KEY_Hangul_SsangSios	


KEY_Hangul_Start	


KEY_Hangul_SunkyeongeumMieum	


KEY_Hangul_SunkyeongeumPhieuf	


KEY_Hangul_SunkyeongeumPieub	


KEY_Hangul_switch	


KEY_Hangul_Tieut	


KEY_Hangul_U	


KEY_Hangul_WA	


KEY_Hangul_WAE	


KEY_Hangul_WE	


KEY_Hangul_WEO	


KEY_Hangul_WI	


KEY_Hangul_YA	


KEY_Hangul_YAE	


KEY_Hangul_YE	


KEY_Hangul_YEO	


KEY_Hangul_YeorinHieuh	


KEY_Hangul_YI	


KEY_Hangul_YO	


KEY_Hangul_YU	


KEY_HangupPhone	


KEY_Hankaku	


KEY_Hcircumflex	


KEY_hcircumflex	


KEY_heart	


KEY_hebrew_aleph	


KEY_hebrew_ayin	


KEY_hebrew_bet	


KEY_hebrew_beth	


KEY_hebrew_chet	


KEY_hebrew_dalet	


KEY_hebrew_daleth	


KEY_hebrew_doublelowline	


KEY_hebrew_finalkaph	


KEY_hebrew_finalmem	


KEY_hebrew_finalnun	


KEY_hebrew_finalpe	


KEY_hebrew_finalzade	


KEY_hebrew_finalzadi	


KEY_hebrew_gimel	


KEY_hebrew_gimmel	


KEY_hebrew_he	


KEY_hebrew_het	


KEY_hebrew_kaph	


KEY_hebrew_kuf	


KEY_hebrew_lamed	


KEY_hebrew_mem	


KEY_hebrew_nun	


KEY_hebrew_pe	


KEY_hebrew_qoph	


KEY_hebrew_resh	


KEY_hebrew_samech	


KEY_hebrew_samekh	


KEY_hebrew_shin	


KEY_Hebrew_switch	


KEY_hebrew_taf	


KEY_hebrew_taw	


KEY_hebrew_tet	


KEY_hebrew_teth	


KEY_hebrew_waw	


KEY_hebrew_yod	


KEY_hebrew_zade	


KEY_hebrew_zadi	


KEY_hebrew_zain	


KEY_hebrew_zayin	


KEY_Help	


KEY_Henkan	


KEY_Henkan_Mode	


KEY_hexagram	


KEY_Hibernate	


KEY_Hiragana	


KEY_Hiragana_Katakana	


KEY_History	


KEY_Home	


KEY_HomePage	


KEY_horizconnector	


KEY_horizlinescan1	


KEY_horizlinescan3	


KEY_horizlinescan5	


KEY_horizlinescan7	


KEY_horizlinescan9	


KEY_HotLinks	


KEY_Hstroke	


KEY_hstroke	


KEY_ht	


KEY_Hyper_L	


KEY_Hyper_R	


KEY_hyphen	


KEY_I	


KEY_i	


KEY_Iabovedot	


KEY_Iacute	


KEY_iacute	


KEY_Ibelowdot	


KEY_ibelowdot	


KEY_Ibreve	


KEY_ibreve	


KEY_Icircumflex	


KEY_icircumflex	


KEY_identical	


KEY_Idiaeresis	


KEY_idiaeresis	


KEY_idotless	


KEY_ifonlyif	


KEY_Igrave	


KEY_igrave	


KEY_Ihook	


KEY_ihook	


KEY_Imacron	


KEY_imacron	


KEY_Images	


KEY_implies	


KEY_includedin	


KEY_includes	


KEY_infinity	


KEY_Info	


KEY_Insert	


KEY_integral	


KEY_intersection	


KEY_Iogonek	


KEY_iogonek	


KEY_ISO_Center_Object	


KEY_ISO_Continuous_Underline	


KEY_ISO_Discontinuous_Underline	


KEY_ISO_Emphasize	


KEY_ISO_Enter	


KEY_ISO_Fast_Cursor_Down	


KEY_ISO_Fast_Cursor_Left	


KEY_ISO_Fast_Cursor_Right	


KEY_ISO_Fast_Cursor_Up	


KEY_ISO_First_Group	


KEY_ISO_First_Group_Lock	


KEY_ISO_Group_Latch	


KEY_ISO_Group_Lock	


KEY_ISO_Group_Shift	


KEY_ISO_Last_Group	


KEY_ISO_Last_Group_Lock	


KEY_ISO_Left_Tab	


KEY_ISO_Level2_Latch	


KEY_ISO_Level3_Latch	


KEY_ISO_Level3_Lock	


KEY_ISO_Level3_Shift	


KEY_ISO_Level5_Latch	


KEY_ISO_Level5_Lock	


KEY_ISO_Level5_Shift	


KEY_ISO_Lock	


KEY_ISO_Move_Line_Down	


KEY_ISO_Move_Line_Up	


KEY_ISO_Next_Group	


KEY_ISO_Next_Group_Lock	


KEY_ISO_Partial_Line_Down	


KEY_ISO_Partial_Line_Up	


KEY_ISO_Partial_Space_Left	


KEY_ISO_Partial_Space_Right	


KEY_ISO_Prev_Group	


KEY_ISO_Prev_Group_Lock	


KEY_ISO_Release_Both_Margins	


KEY_ISO_Release_Margin_Left	


KEY_ISO_Release_Margin_Right	


KEY_ISO_Set_Margin_Left	


KEY_ISO_Set_Margin_Right	


KEY_Itilde	


KEY_itilde	


KEY_iTouch	


KEY_J	


KEY_j	


KEY_Jcircumflex	


KEY_jcircumflex	


KEY_jot	


KEY_Journal	


KEY_K	


KEY_k	


KEY_kana_A	


KEY_kana_a	


KEY_kana_CHI	


KEY_kana_closingbracket	


KEY_kana_comma	


KEY_kana_conjunctive	


KEY_kana_E	


KEY_kana_e	


KEY_kana_FU	


KEY_kana_fullstop	


KEY_kana_HA	


KEY_kana_HE	


KEY_kana_HI	


KEY_kana_HO	


KEY_kana_HU	


KEY_kana_I	


KEY_kana_i	


KEY_kana_KA	


KEY_kana_KE	


KEY_kana_KI	


KEY_kana_KO	


KEY_kana_KU	


KEY_Kana_Lock	


KEY_kana_MA	


KEY_kana_ME	


KEY_kana_MI	


KEY_kana_middledot	


KEY_kana_MO	


KEY_kana_MU	


KEY_kana_N	


KEY_kana_NA	


KEY_kana_NE	


KEY_kana_NI	


KEY_kana_NO	


KEY_kana_NU	


KEY_kana_O	


KEY_kana_o	


KEY_kana_openingbracket	


KEY_kana_RA	


KEY_kana_RE	


KEY_kana_RI	


KEY_kana_RO	


KEY_kana_RU	


KEY_kana_SA	


KEY_kana_SE	


KEY_kana_SHI	


KEY_Kana_Shift	


KEY_kana_SO	


KEY_kana_SU	


KEY_kana_switch	


KEY_kana_TA	


KEY_kana_TE	


KEY_kana_TI	


KEY_kana_TO	


KEY_kana_TSU	


KEY_kana_tsu	


KEY_kana_TU	


KEY_kana_tu	


KEY_kana_U	


KEY_kana_u	


KEY_kana_WA	


KEY_kana_WO	


KEY_kana_YA	


KEY_kana_ya	


KEY_kana_YO	


KEY_kana_yo	


KEY_kana_YU	


KEY_kana_yu	


KEY_Kanji	


KEY_Kanji_Bangou	


KEY_kappa	


KEY_Katakana	


KEY_KbdBrightnessDown	


KEY_KbdBrightnessUp	


KEY_KbdInputAssistAccept	


KEY_KbdInputAssistCancel	


KEY_KbdInputAssistNext	


KEY_KbdInputAssistNextgroup	


KEY_KbdInputAssistPrev	


KEY_KbdInputAssistPrevgroup	


KEY_KbdLcdMenu1	


KEY_KbdLcdMenu2	


KEY_KbdLcdMenu3	


KEY_KbdLcdMenu4	


KEY_KbdLcdMenu5	


KEY_KbdLightOnOff	


KEY_Kcedilla	


KEY_kcedilla	


KEY_Keyboard	


KEY_Korean_Won	


KEY_KP_0	


KEY_KP_1	


KEY_KP_2	


KEY_KP_3	


KEY_KP_4	


KEY_KP_5	


KEY_KP_6	


KEY_KP_7	


KEY_KP_8	


KEY_KP_9	


KEY_KP_Add	


KEY_KP_Begin	


KEY_KP_Decimal	


KEY_KP_Delete	


KEY_KP_Divide	


KEY_KP_Down	


KEY_KP_End	


KEY_KP_Enter	


KEY_KP_Equal	


KEY_KP_F1	


KEY_KP_F2	


KEY_KP_F3	


KEY_KP_F4	


KEY_KP_Home	


KEY_KP_Insert	


KEY_KP_Left	


KEY_KP_Multiply	


KEY_KP_Next	


KEY_KP_Page_Down	


KEY_KP_Page_Up	


KEY_KP_Prior	


KEY_KP_Right	


KEY_KP_Separator	


KEY_KP_Space	


KEY_KP_Subtract	


KEY_KP_Tab	


KEY_KP_Up	


KEY_kra	


KEY_L	


KEY_l	


KEY_L1	


KEY_L10	


KEY_L2	


KEY_L3	


KEY_L4	


KEY_L5	


KEY_L6	


KEY_L7	


KEY_L8	


KEY_L9	


KEY_Lacute	


KEY_lacute	


KEY_Last_Virtual_Screen	


KEY_latincross	


KEY_Launch0	


KEY_Launch1	


KEY_Launch2	


KEY_Launch3	


KEY_Launch4	


KEY_Launch5	


KEY_Launch6	


KEY_Launch7	


KEY_Launch8	


KEY_Launch9	


KEY_LaunchA	


KEY_LaunchB	


KEY_LaunchC	


KEY_LaunchD	


KEY_LaunchE	


KEY_LaunchF	


KEY_Lbelowdot	


KEY_lbelowdot	


KEY_Lcaron	


KEY_lcaron	


KEY_Lcedilla	


KEY_lcedilla	


KEY_Left	


KEY_leftanglebracket	


KEY_leftarrow	


KEY_leftcaret	


KEY_leftdoublequotemark	


KEY_LeftDown	


KEY_leftmiddlecurlybrace	


KEY_leftopentriangle	


KEY_leftpointer	


KEY_leftradical	


KEY_leftshoe	


KEY_leftsinglequotemark	


KEY_leftt	


KEY_lefttack	


KEY_LeftUp	


KEY_less	


KEY_lessthanequal	


KEY_lf	


KEY_LightBulb	


KEY_LightsToggle	


KEY_Linefeed	


KEY_LiraSign	


KEY_LogGrabInfo	


KEY_logicaland	


KEY_logicalor	


KEY_LogOff	


KEY_LogWindowTree	


KEY_lowleftcorner	


KEY_lowrightcorner	


KEY_Lstroke	


KEY_lstroke	


KEY_M	


KEY_m	


KEY_Mabovedot	


KEY_mabovedot	


KEY_Macedonia_DSE	


KEY_Macedonia_dse	


KEY_Macedonia_GJE	


KEY_Macedonia_gje	


KEY_Macedonia_KJE	


KEY_Macedonia_kje	


KEY_Macro1	


KEY_Macro10	


KEY_Macro11	


KEY_Macro12	


KEY_Macro13	


KEY_Macro14	


KEY_Macro15	


KEY_Macro16	


KEY_Macro17	


KEY_Macro18	


KEY_Macro19	


KEY_Macro2	


KEY_Macro20	


KEY_Macro21	


KEY_Macro22	


KEY_Macro23	


KEY_Macro24	


KEY_Macro25	


KEY_Macro26	


KEY_Macro27	


KEY_Macro28	


KEY_Macro29	


KEY_Macro3	


KEY_Macro30	


KEY_Macro4	


KEY_Macro5	


KEY_Macro6	


KEY_Macro7	


KEY_Macro8	


KEY_Macro9	


KEY_macron	


KEY_MacroPreset1	


KEY_MacroPreset2	


KEY_MacroPreset3	


KEY_MacroPresetCycle	


KEY_MacroRecordStart	


KEY_MacroRecordStop	


KEY_Mae_Koho	


KEY_Mail	


KEY_MailForward	


KEY_malesymbol	


KEY_maltesecross	


KEY_marker	


KEY_Market	


KEY_MarkWaypoint	


KEY_masculine	


KEY_Massyo	


KEY_MediaRepeat	


KEY_MediaTopMenu	


KEY_Meeting	


KEY_Memo	


KEY_Menu	


KEY_MenuKB	


KEY_MenuPB	


KEY_Messenger	


KEY_Meta_L	


KEY_Meta_R	


KEY_MillSign	


KEY_minus	


KEY_minutes	


KEY_Mode_switch	


KEY_ModeLock	


KEY_MonBrightnessCycle	


KEY_MonBrightnessDown	


KEY_MonBrightnessUp	


KEY_MouseKeys_Accel_Enable	


KEY_MouseKeys_Enable	


KEY_mu	


KEY_Muhenkan	


KEY_Multi_key	


KEY_MultipleCandidate	


KEY_multiply	


KEY_Music	


KEY_musicalflat	


KEY_musicalsharp	


KEY_MyComputer	


KEY_MySites	


KEY_N	


KEY_n	


KEY_nabla	


KEY_Nacute	


KEY_nacute	


KEY_NairaSign	


KEY_NavChart	


KEY_NavInfo	


KEY_Ncaron	


KEY_ncaron	


KEY_Ncedilla	


KEY_ncedilla	


KEY_New	


KEY_News	


KEY_NewSheqelSign	


KEY_Next	


KEY_Next_Virtual_Screen	


KEY_Next_VMode	


KEY_NextElement	


KEY_NextFavorite	


KEY_ninesubscript	


KEY_ninesuperior	


KEY_nl	


KEY_nobreakspace	


KEY_notapproxeq	


KEY_notelementof	


KEY_notequal	


KEY_notidentical	


KEY_NotificationCenter	


KEY_notsign	


KEY_Ntilde	


KEY_ntilde	


KEY_Num_Lock	


KEY_numbersign	


KEY_Numeric0	


KEY_Numeric1	


KEY_Numeric11	


KEY_Numeric12	


KEY_Numeric2	


KEY_Numeric3	


KEY_Numeric4	


KEY_Numeric5	


KEY_Numeric6	


KEY_Numeric7	


KEY_Numeric8	


KEY_Numeric9	


KEY_NumericA	


KEY_NumericB	


KEY_NumericC	


KEY_NumericD	


KEY_NumericPound	


KEY_NumericStar	


KEY_numerosign	


KEY_O	


KEY_o	


KEY_Oacute	


KEY_oacute	


KEY_Obarred	


KEY_obarred	


KEY_Obelowdot	


KEY_obelowdot	


KEY_Ocaron	


KEY_ocaron	


KEY_Ocircumflex	


KEY_ocircumflex	


KEY_Ocircumflexacute	


KEY_ocircumflexacute	


KEY_Ocircumflexbelowdot	


KEY_ocircumflexbelowdot	


KEY_Ocircumflexgrave	


KEY_ocircumflexgrave	


KEY_Ocircumflexhook	


KEY_ocircumflexhook	


KEY_Ocircumflextilde	


KEY_ocircumflextilde	


KEY_Odiaeresis	


KEY_odiaeresis	


KEY_Odoubleacute	


KEY_odoubleacute	


KEY_OE	


KEY_oe	


KEY_OfficeHome	


KEY_ogonek	


KEY_Ograve	


KEY_ograve	


KEY_Ohook	


KEY_ohook	


KEY_Ohorn	


KEY_ohorn	


KEY_Ohornacute	


KEY_ohornacute	


KEY_Ohornbelowdot	


KEY_ohornbelowdot	


KEY_Ohorngrave	


KEY_ohorngrave	


KEY_Ohornhook	


KEY_ohornhook	


KEY_Ohorntilde	


KEY_ohorntilde	


KEY_Omacron	


KEY_omacron	


KEY_oneeighth	


KEY_onefifth	


KEY_onehalf	


KEY_onequarter	


KEY_onesixth	


KEY_onesubscript	


KEY_onesuperior	


KEY_onethird	


KEY_OnScreenKeyboard	


KEY_Ooblique	


KEY_ooblique	


KEY_Open	


KEY_openrectbullet	


KEY_openstar	


KEY_opentribulletdown	


KEY_opentribulletup	


KEY_OpenURL	


KEY_Option	


KEY_ordfeminine	


KEY_ordmasculine	


KEY_Oslash	


KEY_oslash	


KEY_Otilde	


KEY_otilde	


KEY_overbar	


KEY_Overlay1_Enable	


KEY_Overlay2_Enable	


KEY_overline	


KEY_P	


KEY_p	


KEY_Pabovedot	


KEY_pabovedot	


KEY_Page_Down	


KEY_Page_Up	


KEY_paragraph	


KEY_parenleft	


KEY_parenright	


KEY_partdifferential	


KEY_partialderivative	


KEY_Paste	


KEY_Pause	


KEY_PauseRecord	


KEY_percent	


KEY_period	


KEY_periodcentered	


KEY_permille	


KEY_PesetaSign	


KEY_Phone	


KEY_phonographcopyright	


KEY_PickupPhone	


KEY_Pictures	


KEY_plus	


KEY_plusminus	


KEY_Pointer_Accelerate	


KEY_Pointer_Button1	


KEY_Pointer_Button2	


KEY_Pointer_Button3	


KEY_Pointer_Button4	


KEY_Pointer_Button5	


KEY_Pointer_Button_Dflt	


KEY_Pointer_DblClick1	


KEY_Pointer_DblClick2	


KEY_Pointer_DblClick3	


KEY_Pointer_DblClick4	


KEY_Pointer_DblClick5	


KEY_Pointer_DblClick_Dflt	


KEY_Pointer_DfltBtnNext	


KEY_Pointer_DfltBtnPrev	


KEY_Pointer_Down	


KEY_Pointer_DownLeft	


KEY_Pointer_DownRight	


KEY_Pointer_Drag1	


KEY_Pointer_Drag2	


KEY_Pointer_Drag3	


KEY_Pointer_Drag4	


KEY_Pointer_Drag5	


KEY_Pointer_Drag_Dflt	


KEY_Pointer_EnableKeys	


KEY_Pointer_Left	


KEY_Pointer_Right	


KEY_Pointer_Up	


KEY_Pointer_UpLeft	


KEY_Pointer_UpRight	


KEY_PowerDown	


KEY_PowerOff	


KEY_prescription	


KEY_Presentation	


KEY_Prev_Virtual_Screen	


KEY_Prev_VMode	


KEY_PreviousCandidate	


KEY_PreviousElement	


KEY_Print	


KEY_Prior	


KEY_PrivacyScreenToggle	


KEY_prolongedsound	


KEY_punctspace	


KEY_Q	


KEY_q	


KEY_quad	


KEY_question	


KEY_questiondown	


KEY_quotedbl	


KEY_quoteleft	


KEY_quoteright	


KEY_R	


KEY_r	


KEY_R1	


KEY_R10	


KEY_R11	


KEY_R12	


KEY_R13	


KEY_R14	


KEY_R15	


KEY_R2	


KEY_R3	


KEY_R4	


KEY_R5	


KEY_R6	


KEY_R7	


KEY_R8	


KEY_R9	


KEY_Racute	


KEY_racute	


KEY_RadarOverlay	


KEY_radical	


KEY_Rcaron	


KEY_rcaron	


KEY_Rcedilla	


KEY_rcedilla	


KEY_Red	


KEY_Redo	


KEY_Refresh	


KEY_RefreshRateToggle	


KEY_registered	


KEY_Reload	


KEY_RepeatKeys_Enable	


KEY_Reply	


KEY_Return	


KEY_RFKill	


KEY_Right	


KEY_rightanglebracket	


KEY_rightarrow	


KEY_rightcaret	


KEY_rightdoublequotemark	


KEY_RightDown	


KEY_rightmiddlecurlybrace	


KEY_rightmiddlesummation	


KEY_rightopentriangle	


KEY_rightpointer	


KEY_rightshoe	


KEY_rightsinglequotemark	


KEY_rightt	


KEY_righttack	


KEY_RightUp	


KEY_RockerDown	


KEY_RockerEnter	


KEY_RockerUp	


KEY_Romaji	


KEY_RootMenu	


KEY_RotateWindows	


KEY_RotationKB	


KEY_RotationLockToggle	


KEY_RotationPB	


KEY_RupeeSign	


KEY_S	


KEY_s	


KEY_Sabovedot	


KEY_sabovedot	


KEY_Sacute	


KEY_sacute	


KEY_Save	


KEY_Scaron	


KEY_scaron	


KEY_Scedilla	


KEY_scedilla	


KEY_SCHWA	


KEY_schwa	


KEY_Scircumflex	


KEY_scircumflex	


KEY_ScreenSaver	


KEY_Screensaver	


KEY_script_switch	


KEY_Scroll_Lock	


KEY_ScrollClick	


KEY_ScrollDown	


KEY_ScrollUp	


KEY_Search	


KEY_seconds	


KEY_section	


KEY_Select	


KEY_SelectButton	


KEY_SelectiveScreenshot	


KEY_semicolon	


KEY_semivoicedsound	


KEY_Send	


KEY_Serbian_DJE	


KEY_Serbian_dje	


KEY_Serbian_DZE	


KEY_Serbian_dze	


KEY_Serbian_JE	


KEY_Serbian_je	


KEY_Serbian_LJE	


KEY_Serbian_lje	


KEY_Serbian_NJE	


KEY_Serbian_nje	


KEY_Serbian_TSHE	


KEY_Serbian_tshe	


KEY_seveneighths	


KEY_sevensubscript	


KEY_sevensuperior	


KEY_Shift_L	


KEY_Shift_Lock	


KEY_Shift_R	


KEY_Shop	


KEY_SidevuSonar	


KEY_signaturemark	


KEY_signifblank	


KEY_similarequal	


KEY_SingleCandidate	


KEY_singlelowquotemark	


KEY_SingleRangeRadar	


KEY_Sinh_a	


KEY_Sinh_aa	


KEY_Sinh_aa2	


KEY_Sinh_ae	


KEY_Sinh_ae2	


KEY_Sinh_aee	


KEY_Sinh_aee2	


KEY_Sinh_ai	


KEY_Sinh_ai2	


KEY_Sinh_al	


KEY_Sinh_au	


KEY_Sinh_au2	


KEY_Sinh_ba	


KEY_Sinh_bha	


KEY_Sinh_ca	


KEY_Sinh_cha	


KEY_Sinh_dda	


KEY_Sinh_ddha	


KEY_Sinh_dha	


KEY_Sinh_dhha	


KEY_Sinh_e	


KEY_Sinh_e2	


KEY_Sinh_ee	


KEY_Sinh_ee2	


KEY_Sinh_fa	


KEY_Sinh_ga	


KEY_Sinh_gha	


KEY_Sinh_h2	


KEY_Sinh_ha	


KEY_Sinh_i	


KEY_Sinh_i2	


KEY_Sinh_ii	


KEY_Sinh_ii2	


KEY_Sinh_ja	


KEY_Sinh_jha	


KEY_Sinh_jnya	


KEY_Sinh_ka	


KEY_Sinh_kha	


KEY_Sinh_kunddaliya	


KEY_Sinh_la	


KEY_Sinh_lla	


KEY_Sinh_lu	


KEY_Sinh_lu2	


KEY_Sinh_luu	


KEY_Sinh_luu2	


KEY_Sinh_ma	


KEY_Sinh_mba	


KEY_Sinh_na	


KEY_Sinh_ndda	


KEY_Sinh_ndha	


KEY_Sinh_ng	


KEY_Sinh_ng2	


KEY_Sinh_nga	


KEY_Sinh_nja	


KEY_Sinh_nna	


KEY_Sinh_nya	


KEY_Sinh_o	


KEY_Sinh_o2	


KEY_Sinh_oo	


KEY_Sinh_oo2	


KEY_Sinh_pa	


KEY_Sinh_pha	


KEY_Sinh_ra	


KEY_Sinh_ri	


KEY_Sinh_rii	


KEY_Sinh_ru2	


KEY_Sinh_ruu2	


KEY_Sinh_sa	


KEY_Sinh_sha	


KEY_Sinh_ssha	


KEY_Sinh_tha	


KEY_Sinh_thha	


KEY_Sinh_tta	


KEY_Sinh_ttha	


KEY_Sinh_u	


KEY_Sinh_u2	


KEY_Sinh_uu	


KEY_Sinh_uu2	


KEY_Sinh_va	


KEY_Sinh_ya	


KEY_sixsubscript	


KEY_sixsuperior	


KEY_slash	


KEY_Sleep	


KEY_SlowKeys_Enable	


KEY_SlowReverse	


KEY_soliddiamond	


KEY_Sos	


KEY_space	


KEY_Spell	


KEY_SpellCheck	


KEY_SplitScreen	


KEY_squareroot	


KEY_ssharp	


KEY_Standby	


KEY_Start	


KEY_sterling	


KEY_StickyKeys_Enable	


KEY_Stop	


KEY_StopRecord	


KEY_stricteq	


KEY_Subtitle	


KEY_Super_L	


KEY_Super_R	


KEY_Support	


KEY_Suspend	


KEY_Switch_VT_1	


KEY_Switch_VT_10	


KEY_Switch_VT_11	


KEY_Switch_VT_12	


KEY_Switch_VT_2	


KEY_Switch_VT_3	


KEY_Switch_VT_4	


KEY_Switch_VT_5	


KEY_Switch_VT_6	


KEY_Switch_VT_7	


KEY_Switch_VT_8	


KEY_Switch_VT_9	


KEY_Sys_Req	


KEY_T	


KEY_t	


KEY_Tab	


KEY_Tabovedot	


KEY_tabovedot	


KEY_Taskmanager	


KEY_TaskPane	


KEY_Tcaron	


KEY_tcaron	


KEY_Tcedilla	


KEY_tcedilla	


KEY_telephone	


KEY_telephonerecorder	


KEY_Terminal	


KEY_Terminate_Server	


KEY_Thai_baht	


KEY_Thai_bobaimai	


KEY_Thai_chochan	


KEY_Thai_chochang	


KEY_Thai_choching	


KEY_Thai_chochoe	


KEY_Thai_dochada	


KEY_Thai_dodek	


KEY_Thai_fofa	


KEY_Thai_fofan	


KEY_Thai_hohip	


KEY_Thai_honokhuk	


KEY_Thai_khokhai	


KEY_Thai_khokhon	


KEY_Thai_khokhuat	


KEY_Thai_khokhwai	


KEY_Thai_khorakhang	


KEY_Thai_kokai	


KEY_Thai_lakkhangyao	


KEY_Thai_lekchet	


KEY_Thai_lekha	


KEY_Thai_lekhok	


KEY_Thai_lekkao	


KEY_Thai_leknung	


KEY_Thai_lekpaet	


KEY_Thai_leksam	


KEY_Thai_leksi	


KEY_Thai_leksong	


KEY_Thai_leksun	


KEY_Thai_lochula	


KEY_Thai_loling	


KEY_Thai_lu	


KEY_Thai_maichattawa	


KEY_Thai_maiek	


KEY_Thai_maihanakat	


KEY_Thai_maihanakat_maitho	


KEY_Thai_maitaikhu	


KEY_Thai_maitho	


KEY_Thai_maitri	


KEY_Thai_maiyamok	


KEY_Thai_moma	


KEY_Thai_ngongu	


KEY_Thai_nikhahit	


KEY_Thai_nonen	


KEY_Thai_nonu	


KEY_Thai_oang	


KEY_Thai_paiyannoi	


KEY_Thai_phinthu	


KEY_Thai_phophan	


KEY_Thai_phophung	


KEY_Thai_phosamphao	


KEY_Thai_popla	


KEY_Thai_rorua	


KEY_Thai_ru	


KEY_Thai_saraa	


KEY_Thai_saraaa	


KEY_Thai_saraae	


KEY_Thai_saraaimaimalai	


KEY_Thai_saraaimaimuan	


KEY_Thai_saraam	


KEY_Thai_sarae	


KEY_Thai_sarai	


KEY_Thai_saraii	


KEY_Thai_sarao	


KEY_Thai_sarau	


KEY_Thai_saraue	


KEY_Thai_sarauee	


KEY_Thai_sarauu	


KEY_Thai_sorusi	


KEY_Thai_sosala	


KEY_Thai_soso	


KEY_Thai_sosua	


KEY_Thai_thanthakhat	


KEY_Thai_thonangmontho	


KEY_Thai_thophuthao	


KEY_Thai_thothahan	


KEY_Thai_thothan	


KEY_Thai_thothong	


KEY_Thai_thothung	


KEY_Thai_topatak	


KEY_Thai_totao	


KEY_Thai_wowaen	


KEY_Thai_yoyak	


KEY_Thai_yoying	


KEY_therefore	


KEY_thinspace	


KEY_THORN	


KEY_Thorn	


KEY_thorn	


KEY_threeeighths	


KEY_threefifths	


KEY_threequarters	


KEY_threesubscript	


KEY_threesuperior	


KEY_Time	


KEY_tintegral	


KEY_ToDoList	


KEY_Tools	


KEY_topintegral	


KEY_topleftparens	


KEY_topleftradical	


KEY_topleftsqbracket	


KEY_topleftsummation	


KEY_TopMenu	


KEY_toprightparens	


KEY_toprightsqbracket	


KEY_toprightsummation	


KEY_topt	


KEY_topvertsummationconnector	


KEY_TouchpadOff	


KEY_TouchpadOn	


KEY_TouchpadToggle	


KEY_Touroku	


KEY_trademark	


KEY_trademarkincircle	


KEY_TraditionalSonar	


KEY_Travel	


KEY_Tslash	


KEY_tslash	


KEY_twofifths	


KEY_twosubscript	


KEY_twosuperior	


KEY_twothirds	


KEY_U	


KEY_u	


KEY_Uacute	


KEY_uacute	


KEY_Ubelowdot	


KEY_ubelowdot	


KEY_Ubreve	


KEY_ubreve	


KEY_Ucircumflex	


KEY_ucircumflex	


KEY_Udiaeresis	


KEY_udiaeresis	


KEY_Udoubleacute	


KEY_udoubleacute	


KEY_Ugrave	


KEY_ugrave	


KEY_Uhook	


KEY_uhook	


KEY_Uhorn	


KEY_uhorn	


KEY_Uhornacute	


KEY_uhornacute	


KEY_Uhornbelowdot	


KEY_uhornbelowdot	


KEY_Uhorngrave	


KEY_uhorngrave	


KEY_Uhornhook	


KEY_uhornhook	


KEY_Uhorntilde	


KEY_uhorntilde	


KEY_Ukrainian_GHE_WITH_UPTURN	


KEY_Ukrainian_ghe_with_upturn	


KEY_Ukrainian_I	


KEY_Ukrainian_i	


KEY_Ukrainian_IE	


KEY_Ukrainian_ie	


KEY_Ukrainian_YI	


KEY_Ukrainian_yi	


KEY_Ukranian_I	


KEY_Ukranian_i	


KEY_Ukranian_JE	


KEY_Ukranian_je	


KEY_Ukranian_YI	


KEY_Ukranian_yi	


KEY_Umacron	


KEY_umacron	


KEY_underbar	


KEY_underscore	


KEY_Undo	


KEY_Ungrab	


KEY_union	


KEY_Unmute	


KEY_Uogonek	


KEY_uogonek	


KEY_Up	


KEY_uparrow	


KEY_upcaret	


KEY_upleftcorner	


KEY_uprightcorner	


KEY_upshoe	


KEY_upstile	


KEY_uptack	


KEY_Uring	


KEY_uring	


KEY_User1KB	


KEY_User2KB	


KEY_UserPB	


KEY_Utilde	


KEY_utilde	


KEY_UWB	


KEY_V	


KEY_v	


KEY_variation	


KEY_VendorHome	


KEY_vertbar	


KEY_vertconnector	


KEY_Video	


KEY_VideoPhone	


KEY_View	


KEY_VOD	


KEY_VoiceCommand	


KEY_voicedsound	


KEY_Voicemail	


KEY_VoidSymbol	


KEY_vt	


KEY_W	


KEY_w	


KEY_Wacute	


KEY_wacute	


KEY_WakeUp	


KEY_Wcircumflex	


KEY_wcircumflex	


KEY_Wdiaeresis	


KEY_wdiaeresis	


KEY_WebCam	


KEY_Wgrave	


KEY_wgrave	


KEY_WheelButton	


KEY_WindowClear	


KEY_WLAN	


KEY_WonSign	


KEY_Word	


KEY_WPSButton	


KEY_WWAN	


KEY_WWW	


KEY_X	


KEY_x	


KEY_Xabovedot	


KEY_xabovedot	


KEY_Xfer	


KEY_Y	


KEY_y	


KEY_Yacute	


KEY_yacute	


KEY_Ybelowdot	


KEY_ybelowdot	


KEY_Ycircumflex	


KEY_ycircumflex	


KEY_Ydiaeresis	


KEY_ydiaeresis	


KEY_Yellow	


KEY_yen	


KEY_Ygrave	


KEY_ygrave	


KEY_Yhook	


KEY_yhook	


KEY_Ytilde	


KEY_ytilde	


KEY_Z	


KEY_z	


KEY_Zabovedot	


KEY_zabovedot	


KEY_Zacute	


KEY_zacute	


KEY_Zcaron	


KEY_zcaron	


KEY_Zen_Koho	


KEY_Zenkaku	


KEY_Zenkaku_Hankaku	


KEY_zerosubscript	


KEY_zerosuperior	


KEY_ZoomIn	


KEY_ZoomOut	


KEY_ZoomReset	


KEY_Zstroke	


KEY_zstroke	


MODIFIER_MASK	

A mask covering all entries in GdkModifierType.


PRIORITY_REDRAW	

This is the priority that the idle handler processing surface updates is given in the main loop.
