<!-- Code generated by gomarkdoc. DO NOT EDIT -->

# otel

```go
import "go.opentelemetry.io/otel"
```

Package otel provides global access to the OpenTelemetry API. The subpackages of the otel package provide an implementation of the OpenTelemetry API.

The provided API is used to instrument code and measure data about that code's performance and operation. The measured data, by default, is not processed or transmitted anywhere. An implementation of the OpenTelemetry SDK, like the default SDK implementation \(go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk\), and associated exporters are used to process and transport this data.

To read the getting started guide, see https://opentelemetry.io/docs/languages/go/getting-started/.

To read more about tracing, see go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace.

To read more about metrics, see go.opentelemetry.io/otel/metric.

To read more about logs, see go.opentelemetry.io/otel/log.

To read more about propagation, see go.opentelemetry.io/otel/propagation and go.opentelemetry.io/otel/baggage.

## Index

- [func GetMeterProvider\(\) metric.MeterProvider](<#GetMeterProvider>)
- [func GetTextMapPropagator\(\) propagation.TextMapPropagator](<#GetTextMapPropagator>)
- [func GetTracerProvider\(\) trace.TracerProvider](<#GetTracerProvider>)
- [func Handle\(err error\)](<#Handle>)
- [func Meter\(name string, opts ...metric.MeterOption\) metric.Meter](<#Meter>)
- [func SetErrorHandler\(h ErrorHandler\)](<#SetErrorHandler>)
- [func SetLogger\(logger logr.Logger\)](<#SetLogger>)
- [func SetMeterProvider\(mp metric.MeterProvider\)](<#SetMeterProvider>)
- [func SetTextMapPropagator\(propagator propagation.TextMapPropagator\)](<#SetTextMapPropagator>)
- [func SetTracerProvider\(tp trace.TracerProvider\)](<#SetTracerProvider>)
- [func Tracer\(name string, opts ...trace.TracerOption\) trace.Tracer](<#Tracer>)
- [func Version\(\) string](<#Version>)
- [type ErrorHandler](<#ErrorHandler>)
  - [func GetErrorHandler\(\) ErrorHandler](<#GetErrorHandler>)
- [type ErrorHandlerFunc](<#ErrorHandlerFunc>)
  - [func \(f ErrorHandlerFunc\) Handle\(err error\)](<#ErrorHandlerFunc.Handle>)

<a name="GetMeterProvider"></a>

## func [GetMeterProvider](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/metric.go#L35>)

```go
func GetMeterProvider() metric.MeterProvider
```

GetMeterProvider returns the registered global meter provider.

If no global GetMeterProvider has been registered, a No\-op GetMeterProvider implementation is returned. When a global GetMeterProvider is registered for the first time, the returned GetMeterProvider, and all the Meters it has created or will create, are recreated automatically from the new GetMeterProvider.

<a name="GetTextMapPropagator"></a>

## func [GetTextMapPropagator](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/propagation.go#L13>)

```go
func GetTextMapPropagator() propagation.TextMapPropagator
```

GetTextMapPropagator returns the global TextMapPropagator. If none has been set, a No\-Op TextMapPropagator is returned.

<a name="GetTracerProvider"></a>

## func [GetTracerProvider](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/trace.go#L29>)

```go
func GetTracerProvider() trace.TracerProvider
```

GetTracerProvider returns the registered global trace provider. If none is registered then an instance of NoopTracerProvider is returned.

Use the trace provider to create a named tracer. E.g.

```
tracer := otel.GetTracerProvider().Tracer("example.com/foo")
```

or

```
tracer := otel.Tracer("example.com/foo")
```

<a name="Handle"></a>

## func [Handle](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/handler.go#L33>)

```go
func Handle(err error)
```

Handle is a convenience function for GetErrorHandler\(\).Handle\(err\).

<a name="Meter"></a>

## func [Meter](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/metric.go#L24>)

```go
func Meter(name string, opts ...metric.MeterOption) metric.Meter
```

Meter returns a Meter from the global MeterProvider. The name must be the name of the library providing instrumentation. This name may be the same as the instrumented code only if that code provides built\-in instrumentation. If the name is empty, then an implementation defined default name will be used instead.

If this is called before a global MeterProvider is registered the returned Meter will be a No\-op implementation of a Meter. When a global MeterProvider is registered for the first time, the returned Meter, and all the instruments it has created or will create, are recreated automatically from the new MeterProvider.

This is short for GetMeterProvider\(\).Meter\(name\).

<a name="SetErrorHandler"></a>

## func [SetErrorHandler](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/handler.go#L30>)

```go
func SetErrorHandler(h ErrorHandler)
```

SetErrorHandler sets the global ErrorHandler to h.

The first time this is called all ErrorHandler previously returned from GetErrorHandler will send errors to h instead of the default logging ErrorHandler. Subsequent calls will set the global ErrorHandler, but not delegate errors to h.

<a name="SetLogger"></a>

## func [SetLogger](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/internal_logging.go#L13>)

```go
func SetLogger(logger logr.Logger)
```

SetLogger configures the logger used internally to opentelemetry.

<details><summary>Example</summary>
<p>

```go
package main

import (
 "log"
 "os"

 "github.com/go-logr/stdr"

 "go.opentelemetry.io/otel"
)

func main() {
 logger := stdr.New(log.New(os.Stdout, "", log.LstdFlags|log.Lshortfile))
 otel.SetLogger(logger)
}
```

</p>
</details>

<a name="SetMeterProvider"></a>

## func [SetMeterProvider](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/metric.go#L40>)

```go
func SetMeterProvider(mp metric.MeterProvider)
```

SetMeterProvider registers mp as the global MeterProvider.

<a name="SetTextMapPropagator"></a>

## func [SetTextMapPropagator](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/propagation.go#L18>)

```go
func SetTextMapPropagator(propagator propagation.TextMapPropagator)
```

SetTextMapPropagator sets propagator as the global TextMapPropagator.

<a name="SetTracerProvider"></a>

## func [SetTracerProvider](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/trace.go#L34>)

```go
func SetTracerProvider(tp trace.TracerProvider)
```

SetTracerProvider registers \`tp\` as the global trace provider.

<a name="Tracer"></a>

## func [Tracer](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/trace.go#L15>)

```go
func Tracer(name string, opts ...trace.TracerOption) trace.Tracer
```

Tracer creates a named tracer that implements Tracer interface. If the name is an empty string then provider uses default name.

This is short for GetTracerProvider\(\).Tracer\(name, opts...\)

<a name="Version"></a>

## func [Version](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/version.go#L7>)

```go
func Version() string
```

Version is the current release version of OpenTelemetry in use.

<a name="ErrorHandler"></a>

## type [ErrorHandler](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/error_handler.go#L7-L16>)

ErrorHandler handles irremediable events.

```go
type ErrorHandler interface {

    // Handle handles any error deemed irremediable by an OpenTelemetry
    // component.
    Handle(error)
}
```

<a name="GetErrorHandler"></a>

### func [GetErrorHandler](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/handler.go#L22>)

```go
func GetErrorHandler() ErrorHandler
```

GetErrorHandler returns the global ErrorHandler instance.

The default ErrorHandler instance returned will log all errors to STDERR until an override ErrorHandler is set with SetErrorHandler. All ErrorHandler returned prior to this will automatically forward errors to the set instance instead of logging.

Subsequent calls to SetErrorHandler after the first will not forward errors to the new ErrorHandler for prior returned instances.

<a name="ErrorHandlerFunc"></a>

## type [ErrorHandlerFunc](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/error_handler.go#L20>)

ErrorHandlerFunc is a convenience adapter to allow the use of a function as an ErrorHandler.

```go
type ErrorHandlerFunc func(error)
```

<a name="ErrorHandlerFunc.Handle"></a>

### func \(ErrorHandlerFunc\) [Handle](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/error_handler.go#L25>)

```go
func (f ErrorHandlerFunc) Handle(err error)
```

Handle handles the irremediable error by calling the ErrorHandlerFunc itself.

Generated by [gomarkdoc](<https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc>)
