# Upgrading Pimcore from Version 11.x to Version 12

## IMPORTANT: License change! Please read the following information carefully:
With the release of Pimcore Platform Version 2025.1, Pimcore has transitioned its
Community Edition from the GNU General Public License v3 (GPLv3) to the new
Pimcore Open Core License (POCL). Platform version 2024.4 marks the final release under
GPLv3.

This licensing change only affects users of the free and open-source Pimcore
Community Edition previously licensed under GPLv3. If you're already using a Pimcore Professional
Edition or Enterprise/PaaS Edition under a commercial agreement, nothing changes for you. Your
existing contracts, rights, and usage terms remain fully intact — POCL has no impact on your
deployment or support.

Please read the [Pimcore Open Core License](https://github.com/pimcore/pimcore/blob/2026.x/LICENSE.md) carefully
and check whether you can continue to use the free Pimcore Community edition.
**If you continue to use the Community Edition with the Admin UI Classic bundle, [you need to purchase an
additional perpetual license at a price of €1,480 at our store](https://store.pimcore.com/shop/admin-ui-classic-bundle-for-community-edition-pocl-license-134) because of ExtJS licencing limitations.**

## Tasks to Do Prior the Update
### Doctrine EntityManager
Check if all 3rd party bundles are compatible with the new Doctrine EntityManager.
There are 2 possible ways:
1. Check if the bundles use the default EntityManager with the default connection.
2. Check if the bundles use another EntityManager with another connection.

Warning: Do not use the default EntityManager with another connection (or the other way round). This will delete tables.


### WYSIWYG-Editor
#### Enable TinyMCE (included in Professional & Enterprise editions)
TinyMCE is available exclusively available to Pimcore Professional & Enterprise editions. 
To activate TinyMCE please follow the [instructions in our documentation](https://docs.pimcore.com/platform/TinyMCE_WYSWIYG_Editor/). 
  
If you're using Pimcore Community Edition, there's still the possibility to use a [legacy and unmaintained version of TinyMCE](https://github.com/pimcore/tinymce-bundle).

#### Enable Quill (recommended for Community Edition)
Please check the bundle [readme](https://github.com/pimcore/quill-bundle/blob/1.x/README.md) for installation instructions.
To migrate from TinyMCE to Quill please check the following [link](https://github.com/pimcore/quill-bundle/blob/1.x/doc/01_Migration_to_Quill.md)

## Configuration Adaptions
- [Security] Adapt your `security.yaml` to remove the deprecated setting `enable_authenticator_manager`:

## Ensure `pimcore.encryption.secret` is set
- `pimcore.encryption.secret` must be set in your system. This is required for the new product registration. 
  If not set already, run `vendor/bin/generate-defuse-key` to generate a secret and set it as 
  container parameter `pimcore.encryption.secret` or in the symfony configuration as `pimcore.encryption.secret`. 


## Tasks to Do After the Update

### Product Registration
- From now on, Pimcore requires a product registration and container build will fail if the product key is not valid.
  Follow the link provided in the error message and register your instance. For Details also see 
  [Product Registration](../../01_Getting_Started/02_Product_Registration.md).
  Also `pimcore.encryption.secret` must be set for the product registration to work.


### Some Code Changes

- implement function `getColumnsWithMetadata` of `bundles/CustomReportsBundle/src/Tool/Adapter/CustomReportAdapterInterface.php`
- implement function `getPagination` of `bundles/CustomReportsBundle/src/Tool/Adapter/CustomReportAdapterInterface.php`
