# Source: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/default_rules/349-cpn-a92.md

---
title: The API server should not allow anonymous requests to Kubelet
description: Datadog, the leading service for cloud-scale monitoring.
breadcrumbs: >-
  Docs > Datadog Security > OOTB Rules > The API server should not allow
  anonymous requests to Kubelet
---

# The API server should not allow anonymous requests to Kubelet
Classification:complianceFramework:cis-kubernetesControl:4.2.1
## Description{% #description %}

Disable anonymous requests to the Kubelet server.

## Rationale{% #rationale %}

When enabled, requests that are not rejected by other configured authentication methods are treated as anonymous requests. These requests are then served by the Kubelet server. You should rely on authentication to authorize access and disallow anonymous requests.

## Audit{% #audit %}

If using a Kubelet configuration file, check that there is an entry for authentication: anonymous: enabled set to false. Run the following command on each node: `ps -ef | grep kubelet`. Verify that the `--anonymous-auth` argument is set to false. This executable argument may be omitted, provided there is a corresponding entry set to false in the Kubelet config file.

## Remediation{% #remediation %}

If using a Kubelet config file, edit the file to set `authentication: anonymous: enabled` to false. If using executable arguments, edit the kubelet service file `/etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.d/10-kubeadm.conf` on each worker node and set the below parameter in `KUBELET_SYSTEM_PODS_ARGS` variable:

```
--anonymous-auth=false
```

Based on your system, restart the kubelet service. For example: `systemctl daemon-reload systemctl restart kubelet.service`

## Impact{% #impact %}

Anonymous requests will be rejected.

## Default value{% #default-value %}

By default, anonymous access is enabled.

## References{% #references %}

1. [https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/kubelet/](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/kubelet/)
1. [https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/kubelet-authentication-authorization/#kubelet-authentication](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/kubelet-authentication-authorization/#kubelet-authentication)

## CIS controls{% #cis-controls %}

Version 6.14 Controlled Access Based on the Need to Know

Version 7.14 Controlled Access Based on the Need to Know
