# Source: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/default_rules/def-000-77s.md

---
title: '''Delete SQL Server Firewall Rule'' activity log alert should be configured'
description: Datadog, the leading service for cloud-scale monitoring.
breadcrumbs: >-
  Docs > Datadog Security > OOTB Rules > 'Delete SQL Server Firewall Rule'
  activity log alert should be configured
---

# 'Delete SQL Server Firewall Rule' activity log alert should be configured

## Description{% #description %}

To improve the monitoring of network access changes and reduce the time it takes to detect suspicious activity, it is advised to create an activity log alert specifically for the "Delete SQL Server Firewall Rule" event. By enabling this alert, you can gain valuable insights into deletions of SQL Server firewall rules. It is important to note that enabling this alert may result in a significant increase in log size, particularly if there are numerous administrative actions performed on a server. However, the enhanced security monitoring provided by the alert outweighs the potential impact on log size.

## Remediation{% #remediation %}

### From the console{% #from-the-console %}

1. Navigate to the **Monitor** blade.
1. Select **Alerts** > **Create** > **Alert rule**.
1. Under **Filter by subscription**, choose a subscription.
1. Under **Filter by resource type**, select **Server Firewall Rule (servers/firewallRules)**.
1. Under **Filter by location**, select **All**.
1. From the results, select the subscription, then click **Done**.
1. Click the **Condition** tab.
1. Under Signal name, click Delete **Delete server firewall rule (Microsoft.Sql/servers/firewallRules)**.
1. Click the **Actions** tab.
1. To use an existing action group, click **Select action groups**. To create a new action group, click **Create action group**. Fill out the appropriate details for the selection.
1. Click the **Details** tab.
1. Select a **Resource group**, then provide an **Alert rule name** and an optional **Alert rule description**.
1. Click **Review + create**.
1. Click **Create**.
