# Source: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/default_rules/def-000-a11.md

---
title: Azure user granted scoped role assignment over administrative unit
description: Datadog, the leading service for cloud-scale monitoring.
breadcrumbs: >-
  Docs > Datadog Security > OOTB Rules > Azure user granted scoped role
  assignment over administrative unit
---

# Azure user granted scoped role assignment over administrative unit

{% alert level="danger" %}
This rule is part of a beta feature. To learn more, [contact Support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/).
{% /alert %}
Classification:attackTactic:[TA0003-persistence](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003)Technique:[T1098-account-manipulation](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1098) 
## Goal{% #goal %}

Detect scoped Entra ID (Azure AD) role assignment over an Administrative Unit (AU). Use of this type of role assignment may indicate suspicious activity if an environment is not utilizing AUs.

## Strategy{% #strategy %}

Monitor Azure Active Directory logs for `@properties.category:AdministrativeUnit` and `(@evt.name:"Add scoped member to role" OR @evt.name:"Add member to role scoped over Restricted Management Administrative Unit")` where the event includes a restricted administrative unit.

## Triage and response{% #triage-and-response %}

1. Review if restricted administrative units are used by the organization.
1. Review evidence of anomalous activity for the user being granted role assignment to the restricted administrative unit.
1. Determine if there is a legitimate reason for the user being granted role assignment to the restricted administrative unit.
