# Source: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/default_rules/def-000-66c.md

---
title: GitHub anomalous bot org activity
description: Datadog, the leading service for cloud-scale monitoring.
breadcrumbs: Docs > Datadog Security > OOTB Rules > GitHub anomalous bot org activity
---

# GitHub anomalous bot org activity
Classification:attackTactic:[TA0009-collection](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0009)Technique:[T1213-data-from-information-repositories](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1213) 
## Goal{% #goal %}

Detect when anomalous organizational activity is occurring from a bot account inside the GitHub organization.

## Strategy{% #strategy %}

This rule monitors GitHub audit logs for when a bot takes an action outside of Git operations and pull requests.

## Triage and response{% #triage-and-response %}

1. Assess the bot's behavior:

- Review audit logs to determine if the bot's activity is out of character.

- Check for anomalies in the bot's access patterns:

- - Is the `@actor_location.country_code` unexpected or different from typical locations?

- - Does the `@http.useragent` or `@network.client.ip` differ from usual activity?

- - Verify whether the `@network.client.geoip.as.domain` or IP address aligns with known bot activity.

- Contact the bot owner to confirm if the bot should be performing these actions, especially from the observed user agent or IP address.
If suspicious activity is confirmed:
- Immediately block the bot in GitHub to prevent further unauthorized actions. [Block the user in GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/communities/maintaining-your-safety-on-github/blocking-a-user-from-your-organization#blocking-a-user-in-the-organization-settings)
- Initiate your organization's incident response process to further investigate the scope of the compromise and assess potential damage.
- Consider reviewing any additional logs or access tokens used by the bot to determine if further unauthorized actions have occurred.
Follow-up actions:
- Reset the bot's authentication credentials and ensure that no unauthorized tokens or credentials have been issued.
- Notify relevant stakeholders, including security teams and the bot owner, to provide updates on the investigation.
