# Source: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/default_rules/def-000-4y6.md

---
title: GitHub enterprise owner added
description: Datadog, the leading service for cloud-scale monitoring.
breadcrumbs: Docs > Datadog Security > OOTB Rules > GitHub enterprise owner added
---

# GitHub enterprise owner added
Classification:attackTactic:[TA0003-persistence](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003)Technique:[T1098-account-manipulation](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1098) 
## Goal{% #goal %}

Detect when a GitHub enterprise owner has been added.

## Strategy{% #strategy %}

This rule monitors GitHub audit logs for when a GitHub enterprise owner has been added. Enterprise owners have complete control over the enterprise and can take every action, including:

- Managing administrators
- Adding and removing organizations to and from the enterprise
- Removing enterprise members from all organizations owned by the enterprise
- Managing enterprise settings
- Enforcing policy across organizations
- Managing billing settings

Adding members to this highly privileged role should be monitored. An attacker with unauthorized access could seek to persist in the environment by adding additional roles.

## Triage and response{% #triage-and-response %}

1. Determine if the change taken by `{{@github.actor}}` is authorized.
1. If the change was not authorized or was unexpected, begin your organization's incident response process and investigate.

- 3 January 2025 - update detection rule severity from High to Medium.
