# Source: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/default_rules/def-000-3h7.md

---
title: >-
  Cisco Secure Email Threat Defense high number of threat emails received by an
  internal user
description: Datadog, the leading service for cloud-scale monitoring.
breadcrumbs: >-
  Docs > Datadog Security > OOTB Rules > Cisco Secure Email Threat Defense high
  number of threat emails received by an internal user
---

# Cisco Secure Email Threat Defense high number of threat emails received by an internal user

{% alert level="danger" %}
This rule is part of a beta feature. To learn more, [contact Support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/).
{% /alert %}
Classification:attackTactic:[TA0001-initial-access](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0001)Technique:[T1566-phishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566)
## Goal{% #goal %}

Detects a high volume of threat emails received by an internal user.

## Strategy{% #strategy %}

This rule monitors emails to detect a high number of threat emails received by an internal user. This includes mail received internally or mail received from outside the Microsoft 365 tenant.

## Triage and response{% #triage-and-response %}

1. Investigate threat emails received by user `{{@toAddresses}}`.
1. Notify the receiver about the threat emails received, advising them not to interact with any suspicious content and providing guidance on reporting such incidents.
1. Conduct a detailed analysis of the threat emails to identify the source, method of delivery, and any potential payloads.
1. If sensitive information was compromised or if the threat emails constitute a significant incident, report to relevant authorities or regulatory bodies as required.
