# Source: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/default_rules/def-000-a79.md

---
title: Azure user added to restricted management administrative unit
description: Datadog, the leading service for cloud-scale monitoring.
breadcrumbs: >-
  Docs > Datadog Security > OOTB Rules > Azure user added to restricted
  management administrative unit
---

# Azure user added to restricted management administrative unit

{% alert level="danger" %}
This rule is part of a beta feature. To learn more, [contact Support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/).
{% /alert %}
Classification:attackTactic:[TA0003-persistence](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003)Technique:[T1098-account-manipulation](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1098) 
## Goal{% #goal %}

Detects addition of Entra ID (Azure AD) users to restricted management Administrative Units (AUs). Restricted AUs prevent any user without a specific scoped role assignment from modifying target users who are members of a restricted management AU. Addition of a user to a restricted management AU can impact user containment during sensitive incidents if not intentionally configured by the IT team, and may indicate malicious activity.

## Strategy{% #strategy %}

Monitor Azure Active Directory logs for `@properties.category:AdministrativeUnit` and `@evt.name:"Add member to restricted management administrative unit"` where the event includes a restricted administrative unit.

## Triage and response{% #triage-and-response %}

1. Review if restricted administrative units are used by the organization.
1. Review evidence of anomalous activity for the user being added to the restricted administrative unit.
1. Determine if there is a legitimate reason for the user to be added to the restricted administrative unit.
