# Source: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/default_rules/def-000-9kt.md

---
title: Windows HybridConnectionManager service running
description: Datadog, the leading service for cloud-scale monitoring.
breadcrumbs: >-
  Docs > Datadog Security > OOTB Rules > Windows HybridConnectionManager service
  running
---

# Windows HybridConnectionManager service running

{% alert level="danger" %}
This rule is part of a beta feature. To learn more, [contact Support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/).
{% /alert %}
Classification:attackTactic:[TA0003-persistence](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003)Technique:[T1554-compromise-host-software-binary](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1554) 
## Goal{% #goal %}

Detects the presence of Azure Hybrid Connection Manager service running on a Windows system, which could indicate an attacker establishing covert remote connectivity.

## Strategy{% #strategy %}

This rule monitors Windows event logs for events with ID `40300`, `40301`, or `40302` containing specific strings related to Hybrid Connection Manager functionality. The Azure Hybrid Connection Manager creates a secure relay between an on-premises server and the Azure cloud, allowing for bidirectional communication without requiring changes to corporate firewall rules. While this is a legitimate service, it can be abused by attackers who have compromised a system to establish persistent remote access that bypasses traditional network controls. This activity should be concerning when observed on systems that do not have a documented business purpose for Azure Hybrid connectivity.

## Triage & Response{% #triage--response %}

- Validate whether the Hybrid Connection Manager service is authorized on the `{{host}}` system.
- Examine the service configuration to determine which Azure resources it's connecting to and verify if these connections are expected.
- Review authentication logs to identify who installed or configured the service.
- Verify the installation date and time to correlate with known change management windows.
- Analyze network traffic generated by the service to identify potential data exfiltration or command and control activity.
- Review Microsoft 365 and Azure logs for suspicious activity that might be related to this connection.
