# Source: https://docs.datadoghq.com/cloudcraft/account-management/set-up-two-factor-authentication.md

---
title: Set up Two-Factor Authentication
description: Datadog, the leading service for cloud-scale monitoring.
breadcrumbs: >-
  Docs > Cloudcraft (Standalone) > Account Management > Set up Two-Factor
  Authentication
source_url: >-
  https://docs.datadoghq.com/account-management/set-up-two-factor-authentication/index.html
---

# Set up Two-Factor Authentication

Two-factor authentication (2FA) provides an extra layer of security for your account. When you enable 2FA, your Cloudcraft account can only be accessed on devices you trust.

After setting up 2FA, you will log in to your account in two steps:

1. Type in your password.
1. Enter the code from your virtual multi-factor authentication application.

{% alert level="info" %}
If you use your Google account to log in to Cloudcraft, 2FA is not available as Google provides this for you. Make sure you go through the 2FA process on the Google side before logging in to your Cloudcraft account.
{% /alert %}

## Enable 2FA{% #enable-2fa %}

1. Download an authenticator app such as Google Authenticator or [Authy](https://authy.com/) for your phone.
1. Log in to your Cloudcraft account.
1. Click the **Account** icon and select **User settings**.
1. Click **Manage MFA**. The 2FA barcode is displayed.
1. Open the authenticator app on your phone and scan the barcode.
1. Enter the six digit verification code generated by your authenticator app, then click **Verify**.

The next window displays a recovery key. The recovery key is an 18 character length string of numbers and letters displayed only once that can help you get back into your account if you lose access to the device you use to manage 2FA. It acts as a one-time password. Cloudcraft recommends printing the key and keeping it somewhere safe.

## Disable 2FA{% #disable-2fa %}

Disabling 2FA is not recommended and may lead to overall worse account security. Heimdal Security has an excellent article on [why you should always use two-factor authentication](https://heimdalsecurity.com/blog/start-using-two-factor-authentication/).

1. Log in to your Cloudcraft account.
1. Click the **Account** icon and select **User settings**.
1. Click **Manage MFA**, then select **Disable MFA**.
