# Source: https://docs.logrocket.com/reference/flutter-navigation-capture.md

# Navigation Capture

Capture Flutter app navigation events

User navigation between app pages is captured in session replay via `LogRocketNavigatorObserver`. When registered, the navigator observer captures navigations to and away from pages in apps.

## Registering the navigation observer

Register LogRocket's navigation observer on construction of your `WidgetsApp` or any of its subclasses, such as `MaterialApp`, or directly on any `Navigator` instances themselves. Passing a URL host to the navigator observer's constructor will form the base of URLs generated for navigation events.

```dart Flutter
class App extends StatelessWidget {
	const App({super.key});
  
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  	return LogRocketWidget(
    	child: MaterialApp(
        title: 'Flutter App',
        home: HomePage(),
        navigatorObservers: [LogRocketNavigatorObserver('example.com')]
        theme: ...
			)
    );
  }
}
```

## Tag pages

Pages can be tagged independently of automatic navigation captures by calling `LogRocket.tagPage`, and passing the name of the tagged page. It is recommended that the LogRocket Navigator Observer is registered before pages are tags, as navigation events generated by page tags inherit the navigation observer's URL.

Tagged pages register as the final path segment in a navigation hierarchy. Route pushes and pops on the app will clear any page tag from the navigation observer's URL. If the same page is tagged repeatedly, LogRocket will only log the first instance as a navigation event.

In a stateless widget, the call to `tagPage` should be made in the widget's `build` method.

### Tag pages in a stateful widget

Call `tagPage` in a stateful widget from the `initState` method in its associated `State` object to avoid repetitive navigation events as the stateful widget is re-rendered in response to state changes.

```dart Flutter
class Home extends StatefulWidget {
  const Home({super.key});
  
  @override
  State<Home> createState() => _HomeState();
}

class _HomeState extends State<Home> {
  @override
  void initState() {
    super.initState();
    
    LogRocket.tagPage('Home');
  }

	@override
	Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return const Text('Welcome');
  }
}
```

## GoRouter

A `LogRocketNavigatorObserver` can be registered with GoRouter to observe navigation changes.

```dart Flutter
final _router = GoRouter(
  observers: [LogRocketNavigatorObserver()],
  routes: [
    // your routes here
  ],
);
```

### StatefulShellRoute limitations

If your app is using `StatefulShellRoutes`, GoRouter has a few limitations that may interfere with navigation tracking. These are discussed in this [Flutter GitHub Issue](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/112196), but the main limitations are as follows:

* When using `StatefulShellRoutes`, top level observers are not notified of URL changes in each stateful child route.
* GoRouter does not signal observers when switching between `StatefulShellRoutes`.

Because of these limitations, it may be preferable to manually track navigation via [tagPage](https://docs.logrocket.com/reference/flutter-navigation-capture#/tag-pages) with the current route. An example of how to do so can be found in our `logrocket_flutter` package [example under GoRouterStatefulShellSample](https://pub.dev/packages/logrocket_flutter/example).