# Node servers

To generate a standalone Node server, use [`adapter-node`](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/tree/main/packages/adapter-node).

## Usage

Install with `npm i -D @sveltejs/adapter-node`, then add the adapter to your `svelte.config.js`:

```js
// @errors: 2307
/// file: svelte.config.js
import adapter from '@sveltejs/adapter-node';

/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Config} */
const config = {
	kit: {
		adapter: adapter()
	}
};

export default config;
```

## Deploying

First, build your app with `npm run build`. This will create the production server in the output directory specified in the adapter options, defaulting to `build`.

You will need the output directory, the project's `package.json`, and the production dependencies in `node_modules` to run the application. Production dependencies can be generated by copying the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` and then running `npm ci --omit dev` (you can skip this step if your app doesn't have any dependencies). You can then start your app with this command:

```sh
node build
```

Development dependencies will be bundled into your app using [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org). To control whether a given package is bundled or externalised, place it in `devDependencies` or `dependencies` respectively in your `package.json`.

### Compressing responses

You will typically want to compress responses coming from the server. If you're already deploying your server behind a reverse proxy for SSL or load balancing, it typically results in better performance to also handle compression at that layer since Node.js is single-threaded.

However, if you're building a [custom server](#Custom-server) and do want to add a compression middleware there, note that we would recommend using [`@polka/compression`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@polka/compression) since SvelteKit streams responses and the more popular `compression` package does not support streaming and may cause errors when used.

## Environment variables

In `dev` and `preview`, SvelteKit will read environment variables from your `.env` file (or `.env.local`, or `.env.[mode]`, [as determined by Vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/env-and-mode.html#env-files).)

In production, `.env` files are _not_ automatically loaded. To do so, install `dotenv` in your project...

```sh
npm install dotenv
```

...and invoke it before running the built app:

```sh
node +++-r dotenv/config+++ build
```

If you use Node.js v20.6+, you can use the [`--env-file`](https://nodejs.org/en/learn/command-line/how-to-read-environment-variables-from-nodejs) flag instead:

```sh
node +++--env-file=.env+++ build
```

### `PORT`, `HOST` and `SOCKET_PATH`

By default, the server will accept connections on `0.0.0.0` using port 3000. These can be customised with the `PORT` and `HOST` environment variables:

```sh
HOST=127.0.0.1 PORT=4000 node build
```

Alternatively, the server can be configured to accept connections on a specified socket path. When this is done using the `SOCKET_PATH` environment variable, the `HOST` and `PORT` environment variables will be disregarded.

```sh
SOCKET_PATH=/tmp/socket node build
```

### `ORIGIN`, `PROTOCOL_HEADER`, `HOST_HEADER`, and `PORT_HEADER`

HTTP doesn't give SvelteKit a reliable way to know the URL that is currently being requested. The simplest way to tell SvelteKit where the app is being served is to set the `ORIGIN` environment variable:

```sh
ORIGIN=https://my.site node build