# NoiseTexture3D

# NoiseTexture3D
Inherits:Texture3D<Texture<Resource<RefCounted<Object
A 3D texture filled with noise generated by aNoiseobject.

## Description
Uses theFastNoiseLitelibrary or other noise generators to fill the texture data of your desired size.
The class usesThreads to generate the texture data internally, soTexture3D.get_data()may returnnullif the generation process has not completed yet. In that case, you need to wait for the texture to be generated before accessing the image:
```
var texture = NoiseTexture3D.new()
texture.noise = FastNoiseLite.new()
await texture.changed
var data = texture.get_data()
```

## Properties

| Gradient | color_ramp |  |
|---|---|---|
| int | depth | 64 |
| int | height | 64 |
| bool | invert | false |
| Noise | noise |  |
| bool | normalize | true |
| bool | seamless | false |
| float | seamless_blend_skirt | 0.1 |
| int | width | 64 |

Gradient
color_ramp
depth
height
bool
invert
false
Noise
noise
bool
normalize
true
bool
seamless
false
float
seamless_blend_skirt
width

## Property Descriptions
Gradientcolor_ramp🔗
- voidset_color_ramp(value:Gradient)
voidset_color_ramp(value:Gradient)
- Gradientget_color_ramp()
Gradientget_color_ramp()
AGradientwhich is used to map the luminance of each pixel to a color value.
intdepth=64🔗
- voidset_depth(value:int)
voidset_depth(value:int)
- intget_depth()
intget_depth()
Depth of the generated texture (in pixels).
intheight=64🔗
- voidset_height(value:int)
voidset_height(value:int)
- intget_height()
intget_height()
Height of the generated texture (in pixels).
boolinvert=false🔗
- voidset_invert(value:bool)
voidset_invert(value:bool)
- boolget_invert()
boolget_invert()
Iftrue, inverts the noise texture. White becomes black, black becomes white.
Noisenoise🔗
- voidset_noise(value:Noise)
voidset_noise(value:Noise)
- Noiseget_noise()
Noiseget_noise()
The instance of theNoiseobject.
boolnormalize=true🔗
- voidset_normalize(value:bool)
voidset_normalize(value:bool)
- boolis_normalized()
boolis_normalized()
Iftrue, the noise image coming from the noise generator is normalized to the range0.0to1.0.
Turning normalization off can affect the contrast and allows you to generate non repeating tileable noise textures.
boolseamless=false🔗
- voidset_seamless(value:bool)
voidset_seamless(value:bool)
- boolget_seamless()
boolget_seamless()
Iftrue, a seamless texture is requested from theNoiseresource.
Note:Seamless noise textures may take longer to generate and/or can have a lower contrast compared to non-seamless noise depending on the usedNoiseresource. This is because some implementations use higher dimensions for generating seamless noise.
Note:The defaultFastNoiseLiteimplementation uses the fallback path for seamless generation. If using awidth,heightordepthlower than the default, you may need to increaseseamless_blend_skirtto make seamless blending more effective.
floatseamless_blend_skirt=0.1🔗
- voidset_seamless_blend_skirt(value:float)
voidset_seamless_blend_skirt(value:float)
- floatget_seamless_blend_skirt()
floatget_seamless_blend_skirt()
Used for the default/fallback implementation of the seamless texture generation. It determines the distance over which the seams are blended. High values may result in less details and contrast. SeeNoisefor further details.
Note:If using awidth,heightordepthlower than the default, you may need to increaseseamless_blend_skirtto make seamless blending more effective.
intwidth=64🔗
- voidset_width(value:int)
voidset_width(value:int)
- intget_width()
intget_width()
Width of the generated texture (in pixels).

## User-contributed notes
Please read theUser-contributed notes policybefore submitting a comment.