# Source: https://docs.datadoghq.com/infrastructure/resource_catalog/aws_apigateway_documentationpart.md

---
title: Getting Started with Datadog
description: Datadog, the leading service for cloud-scale monitoring.
breadcrumbs: Docs > Infrastructure > Datadog Resource Catalog
---

# aws_apigateway_documentationpart{% #aws_apigateway_documentationpart %}

## `account_id`{% #account_id %}

**Type**: `STRING`

## `id`{% #id %}

**Type**: `STRING`**Provider name**: `id`**Description**: The DocumentationPart identifier, generated by API Gateway when the `DocumentationPart` is created.

## `location`{% #location %}

**Type**: `STRUCT`**Provider name**: `location`**Description**: The location of the API entity to which the documentation applies. Valid fields depend on the targeted API entity type. All the valid location fields are not required. If not explicitly specified, a valid location field is treated as a wildcard and associated documentation content may be inherited by matching entities, unless overridden.

- `method`**Type**: `STRING`**Provider name**: `method`**Description**: The HTTP verb of a method. It is a valid field for the API entity types of `METHOD`, `PATH_PARAMETER`, `QUERY_PARAMETER`, `REQUEST_HEADER`, `REQUEST_BODY`, `RESPONSE`, `RESPONSE_HEADER`, and `RESPONSE_BODY`. The default value is `*` for any method. When an applicable child entity inherits the content of an entity of the same type with more general specifications of the other `location` attributes, the child entity's `method` attribute must match that of the parent entity exactly.
- `name`**Type**: `STRING`**Provider name**: `name`**Description**: The name of the targeted API entity. It is a valid and required field for the API entity types of `AUTHORIZER`, `MODEL`, `PATH_PARAMETER`, `QUERY_PARAMETER`, `REQUEST_HEADER`, `REQUEST_BODY` and `RESPONSE_HEADER`. It is an invalid field for any other entity type.
- `path`**Type**: `STRING`**Provider name**: `path`**Description**: The URL path of the target. It is a valid field for the API entity types of `RESOURCE`, `METHOD`, `PATH_PARAMETER`, `QUERY_PARAMETER`, `REQUEST_HEADER`, `REQUEST_BODY`, `RESPONSE`, `RESPONSE_HEADER`, and `RESPONSE_BODY`. The default value is `/` for the root resource. When an applicable child entity inherits the content of another entity of the same type with more general specifications of the other `location` attributes, the child entity's `path` attribute must match that of the parent entity as a prefix.
- `status_code`**Type**: `STRING`**Provider name**: `statusCode`**Description**: The HTTP status code of a response. It is a valid field for the API entity types of `RESPONSE`, `RESPONSE_HEADER`, and `RESPONSE_BODY`. The default value is `*` for any status code. When an applicable child entity inherits the content of an entity of the same type with more general specifications of the other `location` attributes, the child entity's `statusCode` attribute must match that of the parent entity exactly.
- `type`**Type**: `STRING`**Provider name**: `type`**Description**: The type of API entity to which the documentation content applies. Valid values are `API`, `AUTHORIZER`, `MODEL`, `RESOURCE`, `METHOD`, `PATH_PARAMETER`, `QUERY_PARAMETER`, `REQUEST_HEADER`, `REQUEST_BODY`, `RESPONSE`, `RESPONSE_HEADER`, and `RESPONSE_BODY`. Content inheritance does not apply to any entity of the `API`, `AUTHORIZER`, `METHOD`, `MODEL`, `REQUEST_BODY`, or `RESOURCE` type.

## `properties`{% #properties %}

**Type**: `STRING`**Provider name**: `properties`**Description**: A content map of API-specific key-value pairs describing the targeted API entity. The map must be encoded as a JSON string, e.g., `"{ "description": "The API does …" }"`. Only OpenAPI-compliant documentation-related fields from the properties map are exported and, hence, published as part of the API entity definitions, while the original documentation parts are exported in a OpenAPI extension of `x-amazon-apigateway-documentation`.

## `tags`{% #tags %}

**Type**: `UNORDERED_LIST_STRING`
