# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2026/10_5.md

# 10.5 Release Notes: Feb 16, 2026-Feb 19, 2026

> **Attention:**
>
> This release has completed. For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Security updates

### SAML2 federated authentication: Support for metadata URL

You can now specify the identity provider’s (IdP’s) metadata URL when creating a SAML2 security integration,
instead of providing four separate parameters for IdP information. Snowflake obtains the information directly
from the metadata URL, which is less error-prone and allows IdP changes to be dynamically updated without
changing any parameter values.

For more information, see [Configuring Snowflake to use federated authentication](../../user-guide/admin-security-fed-auth-security-integration.md).

### Tri-Secret Secure supports secure share area accounts

When you publish a listing and enable [auto-fulfillment](../../collaboration/provider-listings-auto-fulfillment.md), Snowflake manages the
provisioning for secure share area (SSA) accounts in consumer regions. With this release, you can now protect your SSA accounts with
Tri-Secret Secure (TSS). This feature allows you to register a customer-managed key (CMK) for use with TSS and activate TSS for your
SSA accounts. You can also optionally pass in the account name when calling the [SYSTEM$GET_CMK_INFO](../../sql-reference/functions/system_get_cmk_info.md) function or the [SYSTEM$VERIFY_CMK_INFO](../../sql-reference/functions/system_verify_cmk_info.md) function to get or verify CMK information.

For more information, see [Tri-Secret Secure with secure share area accounts in Snowflake](../../user-guide/security-encryption-tss-ssa.md).

## Data governance updates

### DUPLICATE_COUNT DMF: Ability to specify multiple columns

You can now associate the DUPLICATE_COUNT data metric function (DMF) with a table to find the number of rows where a combination of
specified columns is duplicated. Previously, you could only return the number of duplicates in a single column.

For more information, see [DUPLICATE_COUNT (system data metric function)](../../sql-reference/functions/dmf_duplicate_count.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | Feb 13, 2026 |
| Tri-Secret Secure supports secure share area accounts | **Added** to Security updates | Feb 19, 2026 |
