# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2026/10_6.md

# 10.6 Release Notes: Feb 23, 2026-Feb 27, 2026

> **Attention:**
>
> This release has completed. For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Data lake updates

### Apache Iceberg™ tables: Partitioned writes with hierarchical paths (*Preview*)

You can now use Snowflake to write to partitioned Iceberg tables by using a hierarchical path layout. This layout is also called
“Hive-style” partitioning.

This update lets Snowflake write to Iceberg tables by using the same hierarchical path layout for partitions that some external engines support.

This feature is supported for both Snowflake-managed and externally managed Iceberg tables. To use a hierarchical path layout for
partitioned writes, set the new PATH_LAYOUT parameter to HIERARCHICAL when you create a table. If you don’t specify this parameter,
Snowflake uses the existing layout for partitioned writes, which is a flat file structure.

For more information, see [Partitioning with hierarchical paths](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg-metadata.md).

## Data governance updates

### Data quality: Non-owners can associate a data metric function with an object (*General availability*)

Users with the SELECT privilege on a table or view can now associate it with a data metric function (DMF) to set up a data quality check.
Previously, only the owner of the table or view could associate a DMF.

As part of this change, an association between a DMF and an object has a new property: EXECUTE AS ROLE. This property specifies which role
the DMF runs with.

For more information, see [Required privilege on the table or view](../../user-guide/data-quality-access-control.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | Feb 20, 2026 |
