# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2026/10_7.md

# 10.7 Release Notes (with behavior changes): Mar 02, 2026-Mar 05, 2026

> **Attention:**
>
> This release has completed. For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Behavior change bundles

This release contains the following behavior change bundles:

| Bundle Name | Status in this Release | Previous Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [2026_02](../bcr-bundles/2026_02_bundle.md) | Disabled by default; admins can enable for testing | N/A (introduced in this release) |
| [2026_01](../bcr-bundles/2026_01_bundle.md) | Enabled by default; admins can disable for opt-out | Disabled by default |
| [2025_07](../bcr-bundles/2025_07_bundle.md) | Generally enabled; admins can no longer enable/disable | Enabled by default |

The status for each bundle will change again in the following behavior change release, planned for April 2026; however, this
schedule is subject to change.

For more information about bundle statuses and how they may impact your accounts, see [About Behavior Changes](../intro-bcr-releases.md).

## Data lake updates

### Apache Iceberg™ tables: Support for fixed(L) data type

Snowflake now supports the `fixed(L)` primitive data type as defined by the Apache Iceberg™ specification. Snowflake maps the Iceberg
`fixed(L)` data type to the Snowflake `BINARY(L)` data type. In addition, Snowflake enforces that values inserted in Iceberg
`fixed(L)` columns are exactly `L` bytes in length.

This enforcement ensures consistent behavior across engines in the Iceberg ecosystem.

For more information, see [Other data types for Apache Iceberg™ tables](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg-data-types.md).

> **Note:**
>
> To use the Iceberg `fixed(L)` primitive data type, you must enable the `2026_02` behavior change bundle in your account. For
> more information, see [Enabling a behavior change bundle in your account](../bcr-bundles/managing-behavior-change-releases.md).

To enable this bundle in your account, execute the following statement:

> ```sqlexample
> SELECT SYSTEM$ENABLE_BEHAVIOR_CHANGE_BUNDLE('2026_02');
> ```

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | Feb 27, 2026 |
