# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2026/10_8.md

# 10.8 Release Notes: Preview

> **Attention:**
>
> Content on this page is available in advance of the completion of the 10.8 release, which is currently either pending or
> in progress and is scheduled for completion on March 11 (subject to change).
>
> Features, updates, or behavior changes described on this page might not be available in your accounts until the release is complete.
>
> For updates to these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## SQL updates

### User-defined types

With this release, you can define user-defined types, which are new data types that are based on existing Snowflake data types. User-defined
types can simplify schema maintenance and improve data quality. You can define a user-defined type once, and then use it in multiple objects.

For example, you can define a data type named `age` that corresponds to NUMBER(3,0) or a data type named `address` that is a
structured OBJECT type with fields for the street address, city, state, and postal code.

## Data collaboration updates

### Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery (BCDR) for listings

Providers can now include listings and their dependencies — such as shares and databases — in
[account replication and failover groups](../../user-guide/account-replication-intro.md). With failover groups, in the event
of a service degradation or outage, [auto-fulfillment](../../collaboration/provider-listings-auto-fulfillment.md) relies on
failover groups for data replication and disaster recovery.

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | Mar 06, 2026 |
| CKE document access history | **Removed** from Snowflake Cortex updates | Mar 09, 2026 |
| Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery (BCDR) for listings | **Added** to Data collaboration updates | Mar 10, 2026 |
