# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023-07.md

# July 2023

The following new features, behavior changes, and updates (enhancements, fixes, etc.) have been introduced this month. If you have any
questions about these additions, please contact
[Snowflake Support](https://docs.snowflake.com/user-guide/contacting-support).

> **Important:**
>
> Each release may include updates that require the web interface to be refreshed.
>
> As a general practice, to ensure these updates do not impact your usage, we recommend refreshing the web interface after each Snowflake
> release has been deployed.

## New Features

### Snowpipe Streaming — *General Availability*

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce the general availability of Snowpipe Streaming, the latest addition to Snowflake ingestion offerings. The Snowpipe Streaming API writes rows of data directly to Snowflake tables without the requirement of staging files. This architecture results in lower load latencies with corresponding lower costs for loading any volume of data, which makes it a powerful tool for handling near real-time data streams.

Snowpipe Streaming is also available for the Snowflake Connector for Kafka, which offers an easy upgrade path to take advantage of the lower latency and lower cost loads.

For more information, see [Snowpipe Streaming](../user-guide/snowpipe-streaming/data-load-snowpipe-streaming-overview.md) and [Snowflake Connector for Kafka with Snowpipe Streaming classic](../user-guide/snowpipe-streaming/snowpipe-streaming-classic-kafka.md).

### Organization Usage: New QUERY_ACCELERATION_HISTORY View

With this release, we are pleased to announce the QUERY_ACCELERATION_HISTORY view in the Organization Usage schema of the shared SNOWFLAKE
database. This view returns the query acceleration usage for warehouses across the accounts in your organization.

For more information, see [QUERY_ACCELERATION_HISTORY view](../sql-reference/organization-usage/query_acceleration_history.md).

### SQL Syntax for Enabling the ORGADMIN Role — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of a new ALTER ACCOUNT … SET IS_ORG_ADMIN syntax that allows an organization administrator to enable the ORGADMIN role within a specific account, without contacting Snowflake Support.

Once the ORGADMIN role is enabled for an account, organization administrators can log in to the account and use the role to perform organization-focused tasks like listing and creating accounts. Enabling the ORGADMIN role in an account also allows queries to access data
in the ORGANIZATION_USAGE schema.

For more information, see [Enabling the ORGADMIN role in an account](../user-guide/organization-administrators.md).

### Schema Detection and Evolution for Kafka Connector With Snowpipe Streaming — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that the Kafka connector with Snowpipe Streaming now supports schema detection and evolution.
The structure of tables in Snowflake can be defined and evolved automatically to support the structure of new Snowpipe streaming data loaded
by the Kafka connector.

To use this feature, you need to enable the [behavior changes in bundle 2023_05](bcr-bundles/2023_05_bundle.md).

For more information, see [Schema detection and evolution for Kafka connector with Snowpipe Streaming classic](../user-guide/snowpipe-streaming/snowpipe-streaming-classic-kafka-schema-detection.md).

### Deleting an Account (Self-service) — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of self-service account deletion. An organization administrator can now delete an account without contacting Snowflake Support.

An organization administrator starts the process of deleting an account by dropping it. Once dropped, the account enters a grace period
during which the account can be restored (“undropped”). Snowflake automatically deletes the account when the grace period expires.

To support the process for deleting an account, this release also introduces the preview of a new syntax for the SHOW ORGANIZATION ACCOUNTS command. When the HISTORY keyword is appended to the command, the output contains dropped accounts along with additional columns such as
scheduled deletion time.

For more information, see [Dropping an account](../user-guide/organizations-manage-accounts-delete.md).

### Organization Usage: New REPLICATION_GROUP_USAGE_HISTORY View

With this release, we are pleased to announce the REPLICATION_GROUP_USAGE_HISTORY view in the Organization Usage schema. The
REPLICATION_GROUP_USAGE_HISTORY view allows an organization administrator to obtain details about the replication usage in an organization.

For more information, see [REPLICATION_GROUP_USAGE_HISTORY view](../sql-reference/organization-usage/replication_group_usage_history.md).

## SQL Updates

### Snowflake Alerts: Support for Future Grants and Object Tagging

With this release, Snowflake alerts now support future grants and object tagging.

* You can use the FUTURE keyword in the [GRANT <privileges> … TO ROLE](../sql-reference/sql/grant-privilege.md) command to
  [define an initial set of privileges that should be granted](../user-guide/security-access-control-configure.md)
  on new alerts created in a specified database or schema.
* You can use the [CREATE ALERT](../sql-reference/sql/create-alert.md) and [ALTER ALERT](../sql-reference/sql/alter-alert.md) commands to
  [assign tags](../user-guide/object-tagging/introduction.md) to Snowflake alerts.
* In the CREATE ALERT command, you can use WITH TAG or TAG to assign a tag to a newly created alert.
* In the ALTER ALERT command, you can use SET TAG or UNSET TAG to assign or remove a tag from an existing alert.

### Search Optimization: Support for Substring Search in Semi-Structured Data — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of [Search Optimization](../user-guide/search-optimization-service.md) support
for substring and regular expression search in [semi-structured data](../sql-reference/data-types-semistructured.md), including ARRAY,
OBJECT, and VARIANT columns. Previously, only equality searches on such columns could be optimized.

Substring queries include predicates that use the following keywords:

* LIKE, ILIKE, LIKE ANY, LIKE ALL, ILIKE ANY
* STARTSWITH, ENDSWITH, CONTAINS
* RLIKE, REGEXP, REXEP_LIKE
* SPLIT_PART

To enable search optimization of substring searches on semi-structured columns, use an
[ALTER TABLE … ADD SEARCH OPTIMIZATION](../sql-reference/sql/alter-table.md) command like one of those below.

```sqlexample
ALTER TABLE mytable ADD SEARCH OPTIMIZATION ON SUBSTRING(semi_structured_column);
```

```sqlexample
ALTER TABLE mytable ADD SEARCH OPTIMIZATION ON SUBSTRING(semi_structured_column:field);
```

```sqlexample
ALTER TABLE mytable ADD SEARCH OPTIMIZATION ON SUBSTRING(semi_structured_column:field.nested_field);
```

The second and third commands illustrate enabling search optimization for a field within a column. Field names must be separated from the
column name with a colon. Nested fields may be specified by including additional field names separated by periods, as shown in the third
example.

For more information on this search optimization improvement, including its capabilities and limitations, see [Search Optimization -
Substring Search in VARIANT Types](../user-guide/search-optimization/semi-structured-queries.md).

### New SQL Functions

The following function(s) are now available with this release:

| Function Category | New Function | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Context Functions (Session) | [CURRENT_ORGANIZATION_NAME](../sql-reference/functions/current_organization_name.md) | Returns the name of the organization to which the current account belongs. |

### SYSTEM$CLUSTERING_INFORMATION Returns Error Messages

With this release, we are pleased to announce that the SYSTEM$CLUSTERING_INFORMATION function now returns recent errors associated with
Automatic Clustering. These errors, returned as JSON objects in an array, explain why Automatic Clustering could not recluster data. By
default, the 10 most recent errors are returned by the function. To allow users to return more or fewer messages, the
SYSTEM$CLUSTERING_INFORMATION function now accepts a number as its second argument. This number specifies how many errors should be
returned.

For more information, see [SYSTEM$CLUSTERING_INFORMATION](../sql-reference/functions/system_clustering_information.md).

### GROUP BY: New ALL Keyword

The [GROUP BY](../sql-reference/constructs/group-by.md) clause now supports the ALL keyword, which specifies that all expressions in the SELECT list that do
not use aggregate functions should be used for grouping.

For example, the following two statements yield the same result:

```sqlexample
SELECT state, city, SUM(retail_price * quantity) AS gross_revenue
  FROM sales
  GROUP BY state, city;
```

```sqlexample
SELECT state, city, SUM(retail_price * quantity) AS gross_revenue
  FROM sales
  GROUP BY ALL;
```

## Data Governance Updates

### Access History: Track Masking & Row Access Policy References — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of the `policies_referenced` column in the Account Usage
ACCESS_HISTORY view. This column allows for the monitoring of queries on a table or view protected by a row access policy and a column
protected by a masking policy and the enforced masking and row access policies. The column includes support for intermediate objects and
columns that are policy protected. Audits on policy protected objects and columns are easier because auditors have a more unified view of
how protected data is referenced without having to do complex joins on multiple Account Usage views. This column was introduced in preview
in [February 2023](2023-02.md).

For details, see [Access History](../user-guide/access-history.md) and the [ACCESS_HISTORY view](../sql-reference/account-usage/access_history.md).

## Web Interface Updates

### Create Named Stages using Snowsight — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of creating and editing named stages using Snowsight without writing
SQL.

To create or edit named stages, you can enter details into Snowsight including information about authentication or encryption for the stage.

For more information, see [Staging files using Snowsight](../user-guide/data-load-local-file-system-stage-ui.md).

### Create Named Stages using Snowsight — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of creating and editing named stages using Snowsight without writing SQL.

To create or edit named stages, you can enter details into Snowsight including information about authentication or encryption for the stage.

For more information, see [Staging files using Snowsight](../user-guide/data-load-local-file-system-stage-ui.md).

### Snowsight Set as Default Web Interface

With this release, [behavior changes in bundle 2023_04](bcr-bundles/2023_04_bundle.md) are enabled by default. As a result,
all customers of Snowflake On Demand have Snowsight set as the default web interface for all users in the account and new users of Snowflake
have Snowsight set as their default web interface.

For more information, see [About the Snowsight upgrade](../user-guide/ui-snowsight-upgrade-guide.md).
