# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023-06.md

# June 2023

The following new features, behavior changes, and updates (enhancements, fixes, etc.) have been introduced this month. If you have any
questions about these additions, please contact
[Snowflake Support](https://docs.snowflake.com/user-guide/contacting-support).

> **Important:**
>
> Each release may include updates that require the web interface to be refreshed.
>
> As a general practice, to ensure these updates do not impact your usage, we recommend refreshing the web interface after each Snowflake
> release has been deployed.

## New Features

### Dynamic Tables - *Preview*

We are pleased to announce the preview of Dynamic Tables.

Dynamic tables are the building blocks of declarative data transformation pipelines.
They significantly simplify data engineering in Snowflake and provide a reliable, cost-effective, and automated way to transform your data
for consumption. Instead of defining data transformation steps as a series of tasks and having to monitor dependencies and scheduling, you
can simply define the end state of the transformation using dynamic tables and leave the complex pipeline management to Snowflake.

For more information, see [Dynamic Tables](../user-guide/dynamic-tables-about.md).

### Amazon S3-compatible Storage — *General Availability*

We are pleased to announce the general availability of support for accessing data in Amazon S3-compatible storage. You can create
external stages for on-premises or other cloud storage services and devices that are highly compliant with the Amazon S3 REST API. With this
feature, you can efficiently manage, govern, and analyze your data regardless of where the data is stored.

For more information, see [Work with Amazon S3-compatible storage](../user-guide/data-load-s3-compatible-storage.md).

### Passing References for Tables, Views, Functions, and Queries to a Stored Procedure — *Preview*

We are pleased to announce the preview of the ability to pass references for tables, views, functions, and queries to a stored procedure.

A reference is a unique identifier for a table, view, function, or query. When you pass a reference to a stored procedure, the stored
procedure performs actions using the active role or secondary roles of the user who created the reference. For example, if you are calling
an owner’s rights stored procedure, you can create and pass in a reference to a table to allow the stored procedure to perform actions on
the table using your active role.

In addition, if the table, view, or function is not fully qualified, the name of the object is resolved by using the current database and
schema when the reference was created (i.e. the database and schema of the user who created the reference).

For more information, see [Passing references for objects and queries to stored procedures](../developer-guide/stored-procedure/stored-procedures-calling-references.md).

### Snowpark ML: Machine Learning at Scale — *Preview*

We are pleased to announce the preview of Snowpark ML. Snowpark ML is a set of Python tools, including SDKs and underlying infrastructure,
for building and deploying machine learning models within Snowflake. This preview includes preprocessing and modeling classes based on
popular machine learning libraries such as [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/),
[xgboost](https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), and [lightgbm](https://lightgbm.readthedocs.io/en/stable/).

Snowpark ML works with [Snowpark Python](../developer-guide/snowpark/python/index.md). You use Snowpark DataFrames to hold your training or
test data and to receive your prediction results.

For more information, see [Snowflake ML: End-to-End Machine Learning](../developer-guide/snowflake-ml/overview.md).

### ML Functions — *Preview*

We are pleased to announce the preview of three new analysis tools powered by machine learning algorithms.

These three features train a machine learning model on your time-series data to determine how a specified metric varies over time and
relative to other features. The model then provides insights and predictions based on the trends detected in the data.

* **Forecasting**: Predicts future metric values from trends in historical data.
* **Anomaly Detection**: Flags metric values that differ from typical expectations.
* **Contribution Explorer**: Helps you find dimensions and values that affect the metric in surprising ways.

For more information, see [ML Functions](../guides-overview-ml-functions.md).

### Native Applications Framework — *Preview*

We are pleased to announce the preview of the Native Apps Framework that enables you to create data applications that expand the
capabilities of other Snowflake features by sharing data and related business logic with other Snowflake accounts.

For more information, see [About the Native Apps
Framework](../developer-guide/native-apps/native-apps-about.md) and [Tutorial: Developing an Application
with the Native Apps Framework](../developer-guide/native-apps/tutorials/getting-started-tutorial.md).

### Custom Event Billing for Applications — *Preview*

We are pleased to announce the preview of Custom Event Billing, a usage-based pricing plan that providers can use to charge consumers for
usage of apps built with the Snowflake Native Apps Framework.

For more information, see [Paid listings pricing models](../collaboration/provider-listings-pricing-model.md) and [Adding Billable Events to Applications](../developer-guide/native-apps/adding-custom-event-billing.md).

### Marketplace Capacity Drawdown Program — *General Availability*

We are pleased to announce the general availability of the Marketplace Capacity Drawdown Program, which allows eligible customers with a
Capacity contract at Snowflake to pay for listings with their committed Capacity.

See [Pay for listings](../collaboration/consumer-listings-paying.md) for more information.

### Snowpipe Streaming Replication Support — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the support of Snowpipe Streaming with [Snowflake replication](../user-guide/account-replication-intro.md). Snowflake supports the replication and failover of Snowflake tables populated by Snowpipe
Streaming and its associated channel offsets from a source account to a target account in different
[regions](../user-guide/intro-regions.md) and across [cloud platforms](../user-guide/intro-cloud-platforms.md) with replication. Snowpipe
streaming supports both database replication and group-based replication.

For more information, see [Replication and Snowpipe Streaming](../user-guide/account-replication-considerations.md).

### Anonymous Procedures — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of support for creating anonymous procedures. An anonymous procedure
is similar to a stored procedure, but not stored for later use.

You can create an anonymous procedure using the [WITH…CALL](../sql-reference/sql/call-with.md) syntax. With this command, you both create
an anonymous procedure defined by parameters in the WITH clause and call that procedure. You do not need to have a role with CREATE
PROCEDURE schema privileges for this command.

### Reading Files With a Java Function or Procedure Handler — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of support for reading staged files with a UDF or procedure handler
code written in Java.

For more information, see [Reading a file with a Java UDF](../developer-guide/udf/java/udf-java-cookbook.md) and [Reading files with a Java stored procedure](../developer-guide/stored-procedure/java/procedure-java-read-files.md).

### Reading Files With a Scala Function or Procedure Handler — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce a preview of support for reading staged files with a UDF or procedure handler code written in
Scala.

For more information, see [Reading a file with a Scala UDF](../developer-guide/udf/scala/udf-scala-examples.md) and [Reading files with a Scala stored procedure](../developer-guide/stored-procedure/scala/procedure-scala-read-files.md).

### Reading Files With a Python Function or Procedure — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce a preview of Python support for reading files with the `SnowflakeFile` class.

`SnowflakeFile` is a new class in the `snowflake.snowpark.files` module that provides dynamic read access for files on an
internal or external stage. With `SnowflakeFile`, you can stream files to accomplish tasks such as reading unstructured data or using
your own machine learning model in a user-defined function (UDF), user-defined table function (UDTF), or stored procedure.

For more information, see:

* [Reading a File from a Python UDF Handler](../developer-guide/udf/python/udf-python-examples.md)
* [Reading Files from a UDF with the Snowpark API](../developer-guide/snowpark/python/creating-udfs.md)
* [Reading a File from a Python Stored Procedure Handler](../developer-guide/stored-procedure/python/procedure-python-read-files.md)
* [Reading Files from a Stored Procedure with the Snowpark API](../developer-guide/snowpark/python/creating-sprocs.md)

### Schema Detection for JSON and CSV — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce a preview of the schema detection feature for JSON and CSV. The schema detection feature uses
the INFER_SCHEMA function to automatically detect the schema in a set of staged data files and retrieve the column definitions. The
generally available INFER_SCHEMA function applies to Apache Parquet, Apache Avro, and ORC files. This preview function expands support to
include JSON and CSV files.

For more information, see [Schema detection of column definitions from staged semi-structured data files](../user-guide/data-load-overview.md).

### Table Schema Evolution — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce a preview of the table schema evolution feature. The structure of tables in Snowflake can now
evolve automatically to support the structure of new data received from the data sources. Snowflake allows adding new columns or dropping
the NOT NULL constraint from columns missing in new data files, and supports dropping columns or changing the data type, length, or
precision of existing columns.

To enable table schema evolution, you can set the ENABLE_SCHEMA_EVOLUTION parameter to TRUE when you create or alter a table.

For more information, see [Enable automatic table schema evolution](../user-guide/data-load-schema-evolution.md).

## Security Updates

### Access Control: New Privilege for Delegating Warehouse Management — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce a preview of a new privilege for managing warehouses.

If you need to delegate the ability to alter, suspend, or resume any warehouse in your account to a custom role, you can grant the MANAGE
WAREHOUSES privilege to that role. Granting the MANAGE WAREHOUSES privilege is equivalent to granting the MODIFY, MONITOR, and OPERATE
privileges on all warehouses in the account.

For more information, see [Delegating warehouse management](../user-guide/warehouses-tasks.md).

## SQL Updates

### New SQL Functions

The following function(s) are now available with this release:

| Function Category | New Function | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Geospatial Functions (Transformation) | [ST_TRANSFORM](../sql-reference/functions/st_transform.md) | Converts a [GEOMETRY](../sql-reference/data-types-geospatial.md) object from one [spatial reference system (SRS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spatial_reference_system) to another.  This function is a preview feature. |

### Improved Performance for SELECT Statements With LIMIT and ORDER BY Clauses — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that the performance of certain long-running SELECT statements containing both LIMIT and ORDER
BY clauses has been significantly improved. This improvement is immediately available to all customers at no additional cost.

The improvement works by pruning micro-partitions that cannot affect the results of such “top K” queries. The additional pruning applies to
queries where an integer-representable value (timestamp or integer, or variant explicitly cast to integer, but not an expression) is the
first or only column specified in the ORDER BY clause. If the query contains a JOIN clause, the ORDER BY column must be from the fact table
(or probe side), typically the larger of the two tables.

Queries on small tables generally do not benefit from this improvement. Queries that return fewer than the number of rows specified in the
LIMIT clause, or that use aggregations, also do not benefit.

Note that not all queries, not even all queries that meet these requirements, will benefit.

For more information on micro-partitions and query pruning, see [Micro-partitions & Data Clustering](../user-guide/tables-clustering-micropartitions.md).

### Support for Python 3.10 in Snowpark, UDFs, UDTFs and Stored Procedures — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce support for Python 3.10 in Snowpark Python, Python UDFs, Python UDTFs and Python stored
procedures as a preview feature to all accounts.

For more information, see:

* [Setting up your development environment for Snowpark Python](../developer-guide/snowpark/python/setup.md)
* [Introduction to Python UDFs](../developer-guide/udf/python/udf-python-introduction.md)
* [Writing stored procedures with SQL and Python](../developer-guide/stored-procedure/python/procedure-python-overview.md)

### Support for Python 3.9 in Snowpark, UDFs, and Stored Procedures — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce support for Python 3.9 in Snowpark Python, Python UDFs and Python stored procedures as a
preview feature to all accounts.

For more information, see:

* [Setting up your development environment for Snowpark Python](../developer-guide/snowpark/python/setup.md)
* [Introduction to Python UDFs](../developer-guide/udf/python/udf-python-introduction.md)
* [Writing stored procedures with SQL and Python](../developer-guide/stored-procedure/python/procedure-python-overview.md)

### UDFs, UDTFs, and Stored Procedures Support Passing Arguments by Name

When calling a UDF, UDTF, or stored procedure, you can now pass arguments by name, in addition to by position.

For example, suppose that you created a UDF with the following statement:

```sqlexample
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION add_numbers (n1 NUMBER, n2 NUMBER)
  RETURNS NUMBER
  AS 'n1 + n2';
```

To pass the arguments by name, specify the argument name followed by => and the argument value. For example:

```sqlexample
SELECT add_numbers(n1 => 10, n2 => 5);
```

You can pass the arguments in any order:

```sqlexample
SELECT add_numbers(n2 => 5, n1 => 10);
```

For more information, see:

* [Executing a UDF](../developer-guide/udf/udf-calling-sql.md)
* [Calling a stored procedure](../developer-guide/stored-procedure/stored-procedures-calling.md)

If there are multiple functions or procedures with the same name, the same number of arguments, and different data types for the arguments,
you can specify the argument names in the call to indicate which function or procedure to execute. The argument names that you specify in
the call take precedence over the argument positions. For more information, see [Overloading procedures and functions](../developer-guide/udf-stored-procedure-naming-conventions.md).

Finally, the following built-in functions support passing arguments by name:

* [CHECK_XML](../sql-reference/functions/check_xml.md)
* [PARSE_XML](../sql-reference/functions/parse_xml.md)
* [ROUND](../sql-reference/functions/round.md)

## Data Science Updates

### Work With Snowflake’s Upcoming ML features

This release introduces a new schema, “ML”, to the Snowflake database, along with an ML_USER SNOWFLAKE database role, which is granted to
the PUBLIC role in all Snowflake accounts containing a shared SNOWFLAKE database.

For more information, see:

* [The ML schema in the SNOWFLAKE Database](../sql-reference/snowflake-db.md)
* [SNOWFLAKE database roles](../sql-reference/snowflake-db-roles.md)

The schema, roles, and privileges support features that will be made available in Public Preview at Snowflake Summit 2023.

## Organization Updates

### ACCOUNTS View (Organization Usage) — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of the ACCOUNTS view in the ORGANIZATION_USAGE schema. The ACCOUNTS view allows an
organization administrator to obtain details about the accounts in an organization, including accounts deleted within the last year.

For more information, see [ACCOUNTS view](../sql-reference/organization-usage/accounts.md).

## Data Loading Updates

### Support REPLACE_INVALID_CHARACTERS for Avro, Parquet, Orc, and XML

With this release, we are pleased to announce that the COPY INTO and CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE commands support the file format option
REPLACE_INVALID_CHARACTERS for Avro, Parquet, Orc, and XML. Previously, this file format option only worked with CSV and JSON.

For more information, see [CREATE FILE FORMAT](../sql-reference/sql/create-file-format.md).

## Data Governance Updates

### Tag-based Masking Policy: Support for Database & Schema — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of setting a tag-based masking policy on a database and schema. This update
enables data engineers to protect all columns in a schema or database when the data type of the column matches the data type of the policy
set on the tag. Additionally, a new column is protected when its data type matches the data type of the policy set on the tag. Setting the
tag-based masking policy on the database or schema simplifies data protection management because you can set the tag-based policy once and
not have to set a masking policy on every column in the database or schema.

For more information, see [Tag-based masking policies](../user-guide/tag-based-masking-policies.md).

### Access History: Track Objects Modified by a DDL Operation — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of tracking objects modified by a DDL operation in the Account Usage
ACCESS_HISTORY view. These operations include:

* Track how tag and policy assignments change.
* Track the table and column lifecycle.

The `object_modified_by_ddl` column records these changes. You can use this column to enhance your data auditing practices and detect
new objects to classify to meet PII detection requirements.

For more information, see [Access History](../user-guide/access-history.md).

## Web Interface Updates

### Load Files From a Stage Into a Table — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of loading files from a stage into a table by using Snowsight.

For more information, see [Load data into an existing table using Snowsight](../user-guide/data-load-web-ui.md).

### New Organizations Only Have Snowsight Access

Starting May 30, 2023, new Snowflake organizations only have access to Snowsight and no longer have access to Classic Console.

For more information, see [About the Snowsight upgrade](../user-guide/ui-snowsight-upgrade-guide.md).
