# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/other/2024-07-11-dcr.md

# July 11, 2024 — Snowflake Data Clean Rooms Release Notes

With this release, we are pleased to announce the availability of the following new features and enhancements in this update to Snowflake
Data Clean Rooms.

## Sequenced template execution

A provider can use a *template chain* to define a sequence of templates to be executed in a particular order. The results of one template
within the sequence can be used as input for a subsequent template in the chain. A clean room user executes a template chain to perform an
analysis that runs the templates in their predefined order.

For more information, see [Using the developer APIs to execute templates sequentially](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/developer-template-chains.md).

## Multi-factor authentication

For increased security, users are required to use multi-factor authentication (MFA) when signing in to the web app. Existing
Snowflake Data Clean Room customers will be sent an email explaining how to enable MFA.

For information about enabling and authenticating with MFA, see [Sign in to the clean rooms UI](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/web-app-introduction.md).

## Register objects in a managed access schema

Collaborators can now register individual tables and views in a managed access schema (that is, a schema created with the WITH MANAGE
ACCESS clause) without registering other objects in the schema. Objects must be registered before they can be linked into a clean room.

For more information, see [Registering data](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/register-data.md).

## Support for additional region

Snowflake Data Clean Rooms are now available in the following region:

| Cloud platform | Supported region | Cloud region ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Amazon Web Service | EU (Zurich) | eu-central-2 |

## Single-party SQL query

Consumers can use the SQL Query template to run analyses without adding tables or defining joins when installing the clean room, which lets
a provider share a clean room designed for SQL queries against the provider’s data only.
