# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/other/2024-11-11-dcr.md

# Nov 11, 2024 — Snowflake Data Clean Rooms release notes

With this release, we are pleased to announce the availability of the following new features and enhancements in this update to Snowflake
Data Clean Rooms.

## All developer API clean rooms now available in the web app

Clean rooms created via developer APIs are now available by default in the web app. This allows users to manage these clean rooms directly
in the web app while still being able to run any template with a custom web app form. Providers no longer need to call the register clean
room to web app APIs, in order to make clean rooms available in the web app. The following APIs have been deprecated:

* `provider.register_cleanroom_in_ui`
* `provider.view_ui_registration_request_log`

In order to make clean rooms and any changes made to the clean room reflect in the web app, providers MUST call the following API going
forward:

```sqlexample
call samooha_by_snowflake_local_db.provider.create_or_update_cleanroom_listing($cleanroom_name);
```

Additionally, both providers and consumers can specify whether their developer API clean rooms should be accessible to their users in the
web app. Please note that it may take up to 10 minutes for the clean rooms or updates from developer APIs to reflect in the web app.

For more information, see [Define a user input form for a custom template](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/demo-flows/custom-templates.md).

## Provider run for custom web app templates

Providers can now enable provider run on custom web app templates. This enables consumers to install and set their respective policies
directly through the web app, while allowing the provider to configure and execute the template query via the web app as well. Providers
must request provider run to be enabled via developer APIs and then call the create or update listings API, prior to the consumer
installing this in the web app. Additionally, providers can customize web app form drop downs to reference options for consumer join &
column policies.

For more information, see [Snowflake Data Clean Rooms: Provider API reference guide](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/provider.md)

## Provider and consumer activation in custom web app templates

Providers can now add a custom activation template to their custom analysis template in the web app. This enables collaborators to support
activation use cases, while deploying custom analysis templates within the web app. Providers will need to add a reference to their
activation template in the web app form.

For more information, see [provider.add_ui_form_customizations](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/provider.md)

## SQL policy configuration updates

Previously, all join columns required an aggregation policy and would have a projection policy applied by default in the SQL Query
template. With this release, join columns will be selected by default for both aggregation and projection policies. Users can remove
and customize their policy requirements as they see fit, while no longer being required to add a join column for every table in the clean
room.

## Sync and naming support for data connectors

Users can now manually sync their data connectors to reflect any changes in the metadata related to the table in the web app. Additionally,
users can provide their preferred name for these external tables, which is prefixed with the cloud identifier for ease of reference.
