# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/ui/2024-02-14.md

# February 15, 2024 — Snowsight Release Notes

This document provides an overview of the new features, enhancements, and other important changes introduced in this update to
Snowsight.

If you have additional questions, please feel free to contact [Snowflake Support](https://docs.snowflake.com/user-guide/contacting-support).

## New tutorials for trial accounts

Snowflake has added new Snowsight worksheets that are available when you create a 30-day trial account. These worksheets contain
sample SQL statements or Python code. You can execute the statements or run the code in these worksheets to learn how to accomplish a
specific task.

The following new tutorials in the documentation walk you through these worksheets:

* [Create users and grant roles](../../../user-guide/tutorials/users-and-roles-tutorial.md) - Create a user and grant a role to it by using SQL commands.
* [Load and query sample data using SQL](../../../user-guide/tutorials/tasty-bytes-sql-load.md) - Load and query data for a fictitious food truck brand named Tasty Bytes in Snowflake using SQL.
* Load data from cloud storage into Snowflake using SQL. The tutorial for this worksheet is available in two versions:

  * [Load data from cloud storage: Amazon S3](../../../user-guide/tutorials/load-from-cloud-tutorial.md)
  * [Load data from cloud storage: Microsoft Azure](../../../user-guide/tutorials/load-from-cloud-tutorial-azure.md)

  The worksheet itself also covers the steps and commands for Google Cloud Storage (GCS).

## Larger maximum file size —– *General Availability*

Snowflake has increased the maximum file size from 50 MB to 250 MB for the following use cases:

* [Load data using Snowsight](../../../user-guide/data-load-web-ui.md).
* [Upload files onto a named internal stage](../../../user-guide/data-load-local-file-system-stage-ui.md).
