# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/ui/2024-02-07.md

# February 07-08, 2024 — Snowsight Release Notes

This document provides an overview of the new features, enhancements, and other important changes introduced in this update to
Snowsight.

If you have additional questions, please feel free to contact [Snowflake Support](https://docs.snowflake.com/user-guide/contacting-support).

## Write Snowpark code in Python worksheets —– *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of Python worksheets in Snowsight. Python worksheets let
you write and run Snowpark Python code in a worksheet in Snowsight. You can now use Python version 3.11 or another
supported version.

In a Python worksheet, you can do the following:

* Write a Python script to read data from a stage, transform it, and save it to a table, all without leaving Snowsight.
* Use included packages from Anaconda or import packages from a stage to write code more easily.
* Automate your Python code by deploying it as a stored procedure and scheduling it as a task.

For more information, see [Writing Snowpark Code in Python Worksheets](../../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/python-worksheets.md).

## Recover worksheets for dropped users —– *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of recovering Snowsight worksheets for users that have
been dropped from Snowflake. You can recover up to 500 worksheets for each dropped user.

For more details, see [Recover worksheets owned by a dropped user](../../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-worksheets.md).

## Get Started page for some accounts —– *Removed*

With this release, the Get Started page that was available to some trial and Snowflake On Demand accounts has been removed.

## Release Notes Change Log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| New navigation menu (Preview) | *Removed* | 02-08-24 |
