# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/other/2024-09-26-dcr.md

# September 26, 2024 — Snowflake Data Clean Rooms Release Notes

With this release, we are pleased to announce the availability of the following new features and enhancements in this update to Snowflake
Data Clean Rooms.

## Branded clean room tiles

Providers can now brand their clean rooms with a logo and company name by configuring the profile of their clean room environment. After the
profile is updated, collaborators see the provider’s logo and name on clean room tiles on the Joined and Invited tabs.

For more information, see [Brand your clean rooms](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/admin-tasks.md).

## Consumer direct activation

Consumers can now push results from an analysis directly to their Snowflake account, allowing them to access row-level data after running
templates for overlap and data enrichment use cases. A provider can configure their clean room environment to prevent this consumer direct
activation.

For more information, see [Activating query results](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/activation.md).

## Activation Hub column policies

Users can now specify which columns should be used as ID columns for their activation, which might be different from the join columns used
while running an analysis.

## Schedule analyses as a consumer

Consumers can configure an analysis to run on an hourly, daily, weekly, or monthly schedule, which lets them keep their data up-to-date
without manually rerunning an analysis. Scheduled analyses run as a background process. The ability to schedule an analysis is available for
the Audience Overlap & Segmentation template, SQL Query template, and custom templates created with the developer APIs.

For more information, see [Scheduling a repeating analysis in the clean rooms UI](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/schedule-analysis.md).

## Clean room data stats

Users can view data stats for their own tables within the clean room. These stats provide distinct counts for their join policy columns
across the top five values for all other columns. In cases where non-join columns have more than 20 distinct values, no distinct counts are
shown.

For more information, see [View details about a clean room](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/web-app-working.md).

## LiveRamp activation

Consumers can now activate their respective RampID back to their LiveRamp account using Snowflake shares or SFTP upload. Users can then
leverage their LiveRamp Connect account to push these segments downstream to additional destinations supported by LiveRamp.

For more information, see one of the following:

* If you are an administrator who needs to configure the LiveRamp connector, see [LiveRamp connector](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/connector-activation.md).
* If you are a clean room user who wants to activate data to LiveRamp, see [the LiveRamp documentation](/user-guide/cleanrooms/connector-activation).

## The Trade Desk CRM activation

Users can now activate first-party PII information back to their The Trade Desk account. This allows users to integrate their CRM data to
create data segments for audience targeting and conversion measurement on The Trade Desk.

For more information, see one of the following:

* If you are an administrator who needs to configure the The Trade Desk connector, see [The Trade Desk - CRM connector](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/connector-activation.md).
* If you are a clean room user who wants to activate data to The Trade Desk, see [The Trade Desk - UID 2.0 connector](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/connector-activation.md).

## Managed account credit limit and monitoring

Collaborators who are using a clean room managed account can now set a monthly limit on how many Snowflake credits can be consumed by clean
room activity. Users cannot use the web app to access the clean room environment when credit consumption is within 10 credits of the limit.
Administrators can also monitor how many credits have been consumed for the month.

Snowflake does not start tracking credit consumption until a user logs into this release of the web app.

For more information, see [Monitor and manage the cost of your managed account](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/managed-accounts.md).

## Audience Overlap, SQL Query and Custom template update

When a user runs an analysis using an Audience Overlap, SQL Query, or custom template, they are prompted to save the analysis and given the
option to schedule future runs of the analysis. Users can continue to use the application because the analysis runs in the background.
