# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/other/2024-11-21-dcr.md

# November 21, 2024 — Snowflake Data Clean Rooms release notes

With this release, we are pleased to announce the availability of the following new features and enhancements in this update to Snowflake
Data Clean Rooms.

> **Important:**
>
> You must log out and back into the web app for these updates to take effect in your account.

## Non-overlap metrics

Clean room statistics now include non-overlap metrics when using the Audience Overlap & Segmentation template in the web app. This shows how
many records in your data did not match join IDs in the collaborator’s data. This capability must be enabled by the data provider.

## Unlink datasets API

Users can now unlink datasets that were previously linked to the clean room using the API.

For more information, see [the provider reference API guide](/user-guide/cleanrooms/provider).

## Dynamic table support

Users can now register and use dynamic tables in their clean rooms. To register these objects via the APIs, see `library.register_objects` in the [consumer](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/consumer.md) or [provider](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/provider.md) documentation.

## Custom Python code in consumer templates

Consumers who create a custom template can now upload and reference custom Python code in their template.

For more information, see [generate_python_request_template](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/consumer.md).

## Merkury Identity connector

The Merkury Identity connector is an identity service provided by Merkle to Snowflake Data Clean Room customers so that they can
encode their customer identifiers into encoded Merkury IDs prior to collaborating within the clean room. The Merkury Identity connector
supports multiple type of IDs: HMID (hashed Merkury ID), email (in clear-form, or encoded in MD5, SHA1 or SHA256), device ID, IP address,
and phone (only supported in cleartext).

For more information, see [the identity connectors guide](/user-guide/cleanrooms/connector-identity).

## Google Display & Video 360 - Customer Match activation connector

Push your first-party, custom-audience data into your Google DV360 account. For more information, see [the activation connectors guide](/user-guide/cleanrooms/connector-activation)
