# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/other/2024-05-28-dcr.md

# May 28, 2024 — Snowflake Data Clean Rooms Release Notes

This topic provides an overview of the new features, enhancements, and other important changes introduced in this update to Snowflake Data
Clean Rooms.

## Multi-provider clean rooms via Developer APIs — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that consumers can use the developer API to run an approved workload across multiple clean
rooms, which lets them gain insights from datasets from more than one provider in the same analysis. Each provider controls which clean
rooms can be combined with their own clean room, and Snowflake Data Clean Rooms enforces the security guarantees of each provider’s clean
room.

For an extended example of how a multi-provider analysis works, see [Multi-provider consumer analysis](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/demo-flows/multiprovider.md).

## Additional supported regions — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that Snowflake Data Clean Rooms are now available in regions on Google Cloud Platform and in
Europe. The following new regions are supported:

**North America**

| Cloud platform | Supported region | Cloud region ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Google Cloud Platform | US Central1 (Iowa) | us-central1 |
|  | US East4 (N. Virginia) | us-east4 |

**Europe**

| Cloud platform | Supported region | Cloud region ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Amazon Web Services | EU (Ireland) | eu-west-1 |
|  | Europe (London) | eu-west-2 |
|  | EU (Paris) | eu-west-3 |
|  | EU (Frankfurt) | eu-central-1 |
|  | EU (Stockholm) | eu-north-1 |
| Microsoft Azure | UK South (London) | uksouth |
|  | North Europe (Ireland) | northeurope |
|  | West Europe (Netherlands) | westeurope |
|  | Switzerland North (Zurich) | switzerlandnorth |
| Google Cloud Platform | Europe West2 (London) | europe-west2 |
|  | Europe West4 (Netherlands) | europe-west4 |

## Support for views in the web app — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that providers and consumers can use the web app to link views, materialized views, and
secure views into a clean room. All referenced databases in these views must be registered with SAMOOHA_APP_ROLE, in order for all necessary
reference usage grants to be applied. For secure views, the owner of the secure view must be the SAMOOHA_APP_ROLE role.

## Clean room customizations for identity & activation — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that providers can customize which activation, identity, and data provider partners display
as options within a clean room. For example, if a provider has a preferred activation partner, they can configure the clean room so the
consumer can only select that partner when activating results.

The administrator customizes the clean room environment using the new Admin » Clean Room Features menu.

## Custom template enhancements — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the following enhancements to the process of creating a user interface for a custom template:

* The template’s user interface can now include a date selector.
* Developers can hide the default table selectors from the template’s user interface.

For more information about these enhancements, see the `provider.add_ui_form_customizations` API in the
[Snowflake Data Clean Rooms: Provider API reference guide](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/provider.md).
