# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/other/2025-03-27-dcr.md

# Mar 27, 2025: Snowflake Data Clean Rooms release notes

With this release, we are pleased to announce the availability of the following new features and enhancements in this update to Snowflake
Data Clean Rooms.

> **Note:**
>
> You must sign out and back in to the clean rooms UI for these updates to take effect.

## Simplified onboarding

Snowflake Data Clean Rooms has simplified the installation process. Installation now happens through the Snowflake Marketplace, and
separates the installation flow for the APIs and the UI. [Learn more](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/installing-dcr.md)

## Analysis Error Messaging in the clean rooms UI

Users running a query in the clean rooms UI can now see any query errors encountered. This can help users debug errors themselves
or provides information they can share with the Snowflake support team to troubleshoot query errors.

## Obfuscated provider templates

Providers can now choose to hide their template logic from collaborators, in order to protect their template intellectual property.
To hide your template body from consumers, set the `is_obfuscated` argument to FALSE in `provider.add_custom_sql_template`.

Note that a consumer must have Snowflake Enterprise edition installed in order to run an obfuscated template.

## Cross-cloud collaboration support for multiple accounts

Users can now enable cross-cloud collaboration for Data Clean Rooms across multiple accounts under the same organization.

## Update to default caching behavior in consumer run analysis

In order to improve template testing and ensure the most recent results are being generated for users, the default cache behavior for the
`consumer.run_analysis` API is now FALSE.

## New limited API access role for developers

Administrators can now grant a limited access role to consumers to enable limited API access to specified clean rooms. The role grants
permission to run a subset of consumer clean room procedures against specified clean rooms. See the
`consumer.grant_run_on_cleanrooms_to_role` documentation for more information.

## LiveRamp Identity & Translation integration update

LiveRamp offers an Identity as well as a Translation offering. Liveramp’s Embedded Identity resolves personally-identifiable information
(PII) or device identifiers into a durable, pseudonymous RampID. LiveRamp’s RampID Translation capability allows for the transcoding of a
RampID from one partner domain encoding to another, enabling you to match persistent pseudonymous identifiers to one another without
sharing the sensitive underlying identifiers. This functionality is available through the [LiveRamp native app in the Snowflake Marketplace](https://app.snowflake.com/marketplace/listing/GZT0Z11US7AP/liveramp-identity-resolution-and-transcoding?search=liveramp).

After you have installed the LiveRamp native app, follow the
[LiveRamp connector instructions](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/connector-identity.md) to configure the LiveRamp connector in your Data
Clean Room.
