# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/7_23.md

# July 10-12, 2023 — 7.23 Release Notes (with behavior changes)

The following new features and updates (enhancements, fixes, etc.) have been introduced in this release. If you have any
questions, please contact [Snowflake Support](https://docs.snowflake.com/user-guide/contacting-support).

> **Important:**
>
> Each release may include updates that require the web interface to be refreshed.
>
> As a general practice, to ensure these updates do not impact your usage, we recommend refreshing the web interface after each Snowflake
> release has been deployed.

## Behavior Changes Bundles

This release contains the following behavior change bundles:

| Bundle Name | Status in this Release | Previous Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [2023_05](../bcr-bundles/2023_05_bundle.md) | Disabled by default; admins can enable for testing | N/A (introduced in this release) |
| [2023_04](../bcr-bundles/2023_04_bundle.md) | Enabled by default; admins can disable for opt-out | Disabled by default |
| [2023_03](../bcr-bundles/2023_03_bundle.md) | Generally enabled; admins can no longer enable/disable | Enabled by default |

The status for each bundle will change in the next behavior change release, planned for August; however, this schedule is subject to
change.

For more information about bundle statuses and how they may impact your accounts, see [About Behavior Changes](../intro-bcr-releases.md).

## New Features

### Schema Detection and Evolution for Kafka Connector With Snowpipe Streaming — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that the Kafka connector with Snowpipe Streaming now supports schema detection and evolution.
The structure of tables in Snowflake can be defined and evolved automatically to support the structure of new Snowpipe streaming data loaded
by the Kafka connector.

To use this feature, you need to enable the [behavior changes in bundle 2023_05](../bcr-bundles/2023_05_bundle.md).

For more information, see [Schema detection and evolution for Kafka connector with Snowpipe Streaming classic](../../user-guide/snowpipe-streaming/snowpipe-streaming-classic-kafka-schema-detection.md).

## SQL Updates

### SYSTEM$CLUSTERING_INFORMATION Returns Error Messages

With this release, we are pleased to announce that the SYSTEM$CLUSTERING_INFORMATION function now returns recent errors associated with
Automatic Clustering. These errors, returned as JSON objects in an array, explain why Automatic Clustering could not recluster data. By
default, the 10 most recent errors are returned by the function. To allow users to return more or fewer messages, the
SYSTEM$CLUSTERING_INFORMATION function now accepts a number as its second argument. This number specifies how many errors should be
returned.

For more information, see [SYSTEM$CLUSTERING_INFORMATION](../../sql-reference/functions/system_clustering_information.md).

## Web Interface Updates

### Snowsight Set as Default Web Interface

With this release, [behavior changes in bundle 2023_04](../bcr-bundles/2023_04_bundle.md) are enabled by default. As a result,
all customers of Snowflake On Demand have Snowsight set as the default web interface for all users in the account and new users of Snowflake
have Snowsight set as their default web interface.

For more information, see [About the Snowsight upgrade](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-upgrade-guide.md).
