# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/7_27.md

# August 07-08, 2023 — 7.27 Release Notes

The following new features and updates (enhancements, fixes, etc.) have been introduced in this release. If you have any
questions, please contact [Snowflake Support](https://docs.snowflake.com/user-guide/contacting-support).

> **Important:**
>
> Each release may include updates that require the web interface to be refreshed.
>
> As a general practice, to ensure these updates do not impact your usage, we recommend refreshing the web interface after each Snowflake
> release has been deployed.

## New Features

### Account Usage: New CLASS_INSTANCES View

With this release, we are pleased to announce the CLASS_INSTANCES view in the Account Usage schema of the shared SNOWFLAKE database. This
view returns one row for each class instance in the account.

A [class](../../sql-reference/snowflake-db-classes.md) is an extensible object type that serves as a blueprint for creating instances. You
can create an instance of a class and execute its methods (procedures and functions) to take advantage of the advanced functionality that
classes provide. For a list of available classes, see the [SQL class reference](../../sql-reference-classes.md).

For more information, see [CLASS_INSTANCES view](../../sql-reference/account-usage/class_instances.md).

## SQL Updates

### New System Stored Procedure for Sending Email Notifications — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of the SYSTEM$SEND_EMAIL() system stored procedure for sending email
notifications. You can call this stored procedure to send an email notification from a task, your own stored procedure, or an interactive
session.

For more information, see [Using SYSTEM$SEND_EMAIL to send email notifications](../../user-guide/notifications/email-stored-procedures.md).

## Web Interface Updates

### Sharing: Improved UI Messaging

We are pleased to announce that the Snowsight Share dialog for worksheets, folders, and dashboards now provides information about
which roles can view the latest worksheet or dashboard tile results. This update does not introduce any behavior changes.

Previously:
:   The Share dialog used the following description: “Viewers without the role can duplicate and run under their own roles.”

Currently:
:   The Share dialog displays the following information to help you understand who has access to results when you share a worksheet,
    folder, or dashboard.

    * The role most recently used to run the worksheet or dashboard tile is required to view the latest results.
    * When you use a secondary role to generate results, the results are visible to any recipient with the role.
    * Viewers without the role can duplicate and run the worksheet or dashboard tile using their own roles.
