# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/7_28.md

# August 16-17, 2023 — 7.28 Release Notes

## New Features

### Blocking Public Access to Azure Internal Stages — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of a new function, SYSTEM$BLOCK_INTERNAL_STAGES_PUBLIC_ACCESS, that
allows an account administrator to block all public network traffic from accessing the internal stage of an Azure account. By blocking all
public IP addresses, the administrator ensures that all successful requests to the internal stage originate from a Private Endpoint and
traverse Azure Private Link rather than a public network.

Two additional functions complement this feature:

* The SYSTEM$INTERNAL_STAGES_PUBLIC_ACCESS_STATUS function determines whether public access to the Azure internal stage is currently
  blocked.
* The SYSTEM$UNBLOCK_INTERNAL_STAGES_PUBLIC_ACCESS allows public access to an internal stage that was previously blocked.

For more information about using these functions, see [Blocking public access — Recommended](../../user-guide/private-internal-stages-azure.md).

## SQL Updates

### Python Package Version Range Support — *Preview*

When you create a Python UDF or stored procedure, you can now specify a range of package versions in the PACKAGES section of the handler
definition. You can specify a particular package version or a range of versions by using version specifiers such as: `==`, `<=`,
`>=`, `<`, or `>`.

For more information, see [CREATE FUNCTION](../../sql-reference/sql/create-function.md) and [CREATE PROCEDURE](../../sql-reference/sql/create-procedure.md).

## Data Loading Updates

### New File Format Option: USE_LOGICAL_TYPE

With this release, we are pleased to announce that the COPY INTO command supports a new file format option USE_LOGICAL_TYPE for Parquet.

With this new file format option, Snowflake can interpret Parquet logical types during data loading. To enable Parquet logical types, set
USE_LOGICAL_TYPE to TRUE when you create a new file format option.

For more information, see [Parquet Logical Type Definitions](https://github.com/apache/parquet-format/blob/master/LogicalTypes.md) and
[CREATE FILE FORMAT](../../sql-reference/sql/create-file-format.md).

## Web Interface Updates

### Snowsight Worksheet Tabs — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of opening worksheets in tabs in Snowsight.

Opening Snowsight worksheets in tabs lets you mimic the experience in Classic Console. You can use tabs to refer to multiple active
worksheets and explore the databases and schemas in Snowflake while writing SQL or Snowpark Python.

For more information, see [Opening worksheets in tabs](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-worksheets-gs.md).
