# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/7_32.md

# September 11-12, 2023 — 7.32 Release Notes

## SQL Updates

### New Function: IS_DATABASE_ROLE_IN_SESSION

The following function is available with this release:

| Function Category | New Function | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Context | IS_DATABASE_ROLE_IN_SESSION | Verifies whether the database role is in the user’s active primary or secondary role hierarchy for the current session or if the specified column contains a database role that is in the user’s active primary or secondary role hierarchy for the current session.  For more information, see Share data protected by a role-based policy — Preview. |

## Data Loading / Unloading Updates

### Replicating streams on Snowflake tables populated by Snowpipe Streaming

With this release, we are pleased to announce that Snowflake supports replicating streams on Snowflake tables populated by Snowpipe
Streaming. For more information, see [Replication and Snowpipe Streaming](../../user-guide/account-replication-considerations.md).

### Snowpipe Streaming authentication updates

With the 2.0.3 release of the Snowpipe Streaming SDK, we are pleased to announce that Snowpipe Streaming supports OAuth authentication and
the `role` property for Snowpipe Streaming is now optional. When configuring Snowpipe Streaming, you can set the `authorization_type`
to `OAuth` and create an OAuth integration with the custom client.

For more information, see [Configure Snowflake OAuth for custom clients](../../user-guide/oauth-custom.md) and [Configurations and examples for Snowpipe Streaming classic architecture](../../user-guide/snowpipe-streaming/snowpipe-streaming-classic-configuration.md).

### New options for INFER_SCHEMA

With this release, we are pleased to announce that the INFER_SCHEMA table function supports two new options, MAX_FILE_COUNT and
MAX_RECORDS_PER_FILE. You can use MAX_FILE_COUNT to specify the maximum number of files scanned from stage. You can use MAX_RECORDS_PER_FILE
to specify the maximum number of records scanned per file.

For more information, see [INFER_SCHEMA](../../sql-reference/functions/infer_schema.md).

## Data Governance Updates

### Row access policies: Reference a protected mapping table in a row access policy — *Preview*

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce that policy administrators can reference a mapping table that is protected by a row
access policy in the policy conditions of a different row access policy. The result is more assurance to compliance officers when a user
queries a table protected by a row access policy.

For more information, see [Example: Protect the mapping table with a row access policy](../../user-guide/security-row-using.md).

### Share data protected by a role-based policy — *Preview*

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce the preview to enable a data sharing provider to use the IS_DATABASE_ROLE_IN_SESSION
function in the conditions of a masking policy or a row access policy to allow a data sharing consumer to access shared data that is
protected by either of these policies. The function argument takes either the name of a database role or a column that contains database
roles. This provides more options to the provider to share data, allows the consumer to access sensitive data that the provider makes
available, and removes restrictions on policy-protected data when the consumer queries a shared table protected by a policy.

For details, see [Share data protected by a policy](../../user-guide/data-sharing-policy-protected-data.md) and [IS_DATABASE_ROLE_IN_SESSION](../../sql-reference/functions/is_database_role_in_session.md).

## Web Interface Updates

### Managing data governance in Snowsight — *Generally Available*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of the Data Governance interface in Snowsight. The
Governance interface includes a Dashboard tab to monitor the most frequently used masking policies, row access policies,
and tags with their usage on tables and columns. The Governance interface also includes a Tagged Objects tab to report
on the Dashboard data, with the option to manually report on the usage of tags and policies on tables and columns.

When you select an element in the Dashboard, Snowsight automatically updates the Tagged Objects tab filters. Additionally,
when you select a row in the Tagged Objects tab, Snowsight automatically redirects you to the object or column in the
Data » Databases interface. You can then manage the policy and tag assignments as needed.

For more information, see:

* [Use Snowsight to set tags](../../user-guide/object-tagging/work.md)
* [Monitor tags with Snowsight](../../user-guide/object-tagging/monitor.md)
* [Monitor masking policies with Snowsight](../../user-guide/security-column-intro.md)
* [Monitor row access policies with Snowsight](../../user-guide/security-row-intro.md)
