# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/7_34.md

# September 27-29, 2023 — 7.34 Release Notes (with behavior changes)

## Behavior Change Bundles

This release contains the following behavior change bundles:

| Bundle Name | Status in this Release | Previous Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [2023_07](../bcr-bundles/2023_07_bundle.md) | Disabled by default; admins can enable for testing | N/A (introduced in this release) |
| [2023_06](../bcr-bundles/2023_06_bundle.md) | Enabled by default; admins can disable for opt-out | Disabled by default |
| [2023_05](../bcr-bundles/2023_05_bundle.md) | Generally enabled; admins can no longer enable/disable | Enabled by default |

The status for each bundle will change in the next behavior change release, planned for October; however, this schedule is subject to
change.

For more information about bundle statuses and how they may impact your accounts, see [About Behavior Changes](../intro-bcr-releases.md).

## New Features

### Snowflake Alerts — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of Snowflake Alerts. A Snowflake Alert is a schema-level
object that you can use to send a notification or perform an action when data in Snowflake meets certain conditions.

For example, you can set up a Snowflake Alert to send a notification or perform an action when:

* The warehouse credit usage increases by a specified percentage of your current quota.
* The resource consumption for your pipelines, tasks, materialized views, etc. increases beyond a specified amount.
* Your data fails to comply with a particular business rule that you have set up.

For more information, see [Setting up alerts based on data in Snowflake](../../user-guide/alerts.md).

## SQL Updates

### New SQL Functions

The following function(s) are now available with this release:

| Function Category | New Function | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Semi-Structured Data Functions (Array/Object) | [ARRAY_FLATTEN](../../sql-reference/functions/array_flatten.md) | Flattens an [ARRAY](../../sql-reference/data-types-semistructured.md) of ARRAYs into a single ARRAY. |

## Web Interface Updates

### Allow Snowflake On Demand customers to purchase listings

With this release, we are pleased to announce that Snowflake On Demand customers can now purchase listing.
For pricing information please see [Snowflake Pricing](https://www.snowflake.com/pricing/).

Customers with trial accounts will still need to convert to paid accounts to purchase listings.

For a list of supported countries, see [Where paid listings are available to consumers](../../collaboration/consumer-listings-paying.md).
