# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/7_35.md

# October 03-05, 2023 — 7.35 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release Notes Change Log.

## New Features

### Budgets — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of Budgets which enables account-level monitoring and notification of
Snowflake credit usage for a group of specific Snowflake objects. You can define a monthly spending limit on the compute costs for
supported objects in your account. In addition to your account budget, you can create custom budgets to monitor credit usage for a
custom group of objects. Budgets sends you a notification when your credit usage is on track to exceed your monthly limit.

For more information, see [Monitor credit usage with budgets](../../user-guide/budgets.md).

### Dynamic tables refreshed on creation by default — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that Snowflake dynamic tables, including those with a downstream lag, now refresh
upon creation.

For more information, see [Understanding dynamic table initialization](../../user-guide/dynamic-tables-refresh.md).

### Dynamic tables new sharing capabilities — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that Snowflake has added sharing capabilities for dynamic tables, allowing for
easier collaboration.

For more information, see [Data sharing with dynamic tables](../../user-guide/dynamic-tables-data-sharing.md).

## SQL Updates

### New SQL Functions

The following function(s) are now available with this release:

| Function Category | New Function | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Context Functions (Session) | [CURRENT_ACCOUNT_NAME](../../sql-reference/functions/current_account_name.md) | Returns the name of the current account.  The account name is used in the preferred [account identifier](../../user-guide/admin-account-identifier.md). |

## Data Collaboration Updates

### Allow non-admins to set up Cross-Cloud Auto-Fulfillment

With this release, users with the ACCOUNTADMIN role can delegate privileges to non-admin roles to allow other users to set up
auto-fulfillment and share listings with consumers in other regions.

For details, see [Use listings as a provider](../../collaboration/provider-becoming.md).

### Offer a limited trial of a data product on the Snowflake Marketplace — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of offering a limited trial of a data product. You can now offer a
trial or sample of a data product to any consumer on the Snowflake Marketplace. Consumers can then trial your data product and
request unlimited access to a full data product. As a provider, you can then choose which requests to fulfill and offer unlimited
access to your data product privately to specific consumers.

For more details about different ways to share data products, see [About listings](https://other-docs.snowflake.com/en/collaboration/collaboration-listings-about).

For details about preparing to offer a limited trial of a data product, see
[Preparing to offer a limited trial listing](https://other-docs.snowflake.com/collaboration/provider-listings-preparing#label-prepare-limited-trial-listing).

> **Note:**
>
> With the release of limited trials of data products, personalized listings will no longer be available for new listings.

## Web Interface Updates

### Task graph run debugging — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of task graph run debugging.

For a given task graph in your account, you can review the run history to identify critical failing tasks that prevent a graph from
completing, long-running tasks, inefficient task graphs, and other monitoring and debugging cases.

For more information, see [View tasks and task graphs in Snowsight](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-tasks.md).

## Release Notes Change Log

| Announcement | Update |
| --- | --- |
| *Task graph run debugging — Preview* | **Added** to *Web Interface Updates* |
| *Budgets — Preview* | **Added** to *New Features* |
