# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/7_36.md

# October 09-10, 2023 — 7.36 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release Notes Change Log.

## Extensibility Updates

### Support for Python 3.11 in Snowpark, UDFs, UDTFs and stored procedures — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce support for Python 3.11 in Snowpark Python, Python UDFs, Python UDTFs and Python stored procedures as a preview feature to all accounts.

For more information, see:

* [Setting up your development environment for Snowpark Python](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/setup.md).
* [Introduction to Python UDFs](../../developer-guide/udf/python/udf-python-introduction.md)
* [Writing stored procedures with SQL and Python](../../developer-guide/stored-procedure/python/procedure-python-overview.md).

## Data Collaboration Updates

### Company name for listing analytics

With this release, you can see the name of the company or organization that is a consumer of your listings on the Analytics tab in
Provider Studio. Previously, you could see the account name and organization name for a consumer, but not the name of the company.

For more details, see [Monitor listing use](../../collaboration/provider-listings-monitor-studio.md).

## Web Interface Updates

### Accessing billing usage statements — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of using Snowsight to view and download billing usage statements, starting with the July 2023 statement. The retention period will be 1 year.

For more information, see [Access a billing usage statement](../../user-guide/billing-usage-statement.md).

### Viewing Query History in worksheets — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of Query History in worksheets in Snowsight. When you view Query History
for a worksheet, you can review the queries run in a Snowsight worksheet, as well as the query results.

For more information, see [View query history](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-query.md).

## Release Notes Change Log

| Announcement | Update |
| --- | --- |
| *Company name for listing analytics* | **Added** to *Data Collaboration Updates* |
| *Logging and tracing from handler code — General Availability* | **Removed** from *New Features* |
