# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/7_38.md

# October 23-24, 2023 — 7.38 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release Notes Change Log.

## Security Updates

### Network rules support Azure private endpoints — *Preview*

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce that the preview of network rules has been expanded to include support for the identifiers
of Azure private endpoints. Now, you can use network rules with network policies to restrict access to the Snowflake service when the request
originates from an Azure private endpoint.

For details about using network rules with network policies, see [Working with Network Rules](../../user-guide/network-policies.md).

## SQL Updates

### ALTER TABLE: Support for IF [NOT] EXISTS with ADD COLUMN and DROP COLUMN

The ALTER TABLE command now supports the keywords IF NOT EXISTS with ADD COLUMN and IF EXISTS with DROP COLUMN:

* When adding a column, you can specify IF NOT EXISTS to add the column only if no column with that name exists.

  For example, the following statement adds a column named `total` only if no column with that name exists:

  ```sqlexample
  ALTER TABLE my_table ADD COLUMN IF NOT EXISTS total NUMBER;
  ```

  If a `total` column already exists, the statement does not return an error, and the existing column is left unchanged.
* When dropping a column, you can specify IF EXISTS to drop the column only if a column with that name exists.

  For example, the following statement drops a column named `total` only if a column with that name exists:

  ```sqlexample
  ALTER TABLE my_table DROP COLUMN IF EXISTS total;
  ```

  If the `total` column does not exist, the statement does not return an error.

For details, see [ALTER TABLE](../../sql-reference/sql/alter-table.md).

### H3 functions for GEOGRAPHY objects — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of H3 functions for GEOGRAPHY objects.
[H3](https://h3geo.org/docs/) is a [hierarchical geospatial index](https://h3geo.org/docs/highlights/indexing/)
that partitions the world into hexagonal cells in a
[discrete global grid system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discrete_global_grid). Snowflake provides the SQL functions that
enable you to use H3 with [GEOGRAPHY](../../sql-reference/data-types-geospatial.md) objects in Snowflake.

For more information, see [Using GEOGRAPHY objects with H3](../../sql-reference/data-types-geospatial.md).

## Extensibility Updates

### Python packages policies — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce support for Python packages policies as a preview feature to all accounts.

Using a packages policy enables you to set allowlists and blocklists for third-party Python packages from Anaconda at the account level.
This lets you meet stricter auditing and security requirements and gives you more fine-grained control over which packages are available
or blocked in your environment.

For more information, see [Packages Policies](../../developer-guide/udf/python/packages-policy.md).

## Web Interface Updates

### Snowsight is the default interface for Snowflake accounts in US government regions

Starting November 6, 2023, all users in Snowflake accounts in US government regions see Snowsight after logging in.

| Cloud | Snowflake Region | Week of change |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Amazon AWS | US Gov West 1 | Week of November 6, 2023 |
| Amazon AWS | US Gov 1 West (FedRAMP High Plus) | Week of November 13, 2023 |
| Amazon AWS | US Gov East 1 (FedRAMP High Plus) | Week of November 13, 2023 |
| Microsoft Azure | US Gov Virginia | Week of November 13, 2023 |
| Amazon AWS | US East (Commercial Gov - N. Virginia) | Week of November 13, 2023 |

Users in those accounts can no longer choose Classic Console as the default experience for their user profile. If needed, users can
access Classic Console from Snowsight.

If you use private connectivity to access Snowflake and have not yet set up your private connectivity configuration to access Snowsight,
you are not affected by this change. See [Configuring private connectivity for Snowsight](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md) to prepare for upgrading to Snowsight.

For more information, see [About the Snowsight upgrade](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-upgrade-guide.md).

## Release Notes Change Log

| Announcement | Update | Date Updated |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Snowsight is the Default Interface for Snowflake Accounts in US Government Regions* | **Added** to *Web Interface Updates* | 25-Oct-2023 |
| *H3 functions for GEOGRAPHY objects — Preview* | **Added** to *SQL Updates* | 25-Oct-2023 |
