# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/7_40.md

# November 09-10, 2023 — 7.40 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release Notes Change Log.

## SQL Updates

### Search Optimization: Support for Substring Search in Semi-Structured Data — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of [Search Optimization](../../user-guide/search-optimization-service.md)
support for substring and regular expression search in [semi-structured data](../../sql-reference/data-types-semistructured.md), including
ARRAY, OBJECT, and VARIANT columns. Previously, only equality searches on such columns could be optimized.

Substring queries include predicates that use the following keywords:

* LIKE, ILIKE, LIKE ANY, LIKE ALL, ILIKE ANY
* STARTSWITH, ENDSWITH, CONTAINS
* RLIKE, REGEXP, REXEP_LIKE
* SPLIT_PART

You can enable substring search optimization for semi-structured data by running ALTER TABLE commands on specific columns. For example:

```sqlexample
ALTER TABLE test_table
  ADD SEARCH OPTIMIZATION ON SUBSTRING(variant_col:data.field);
```

For more information on this search optimization improvement, including its capabilities and limitations, see
[Substring search in VARIANT types](../../user-guide/search-optimization/semi-structured-queries.md).

### Email Notification Integrations: ALLOWED_RECIPIENTS No Longer Required

With this release, you no longer need to set the ALLOWED_RECIPIENTS property of email notification integrations before you call the
[SYSTEM$SEND_EMAIL](../../sql-reference/stored-procedures/system_send_email.md) stored procedure.

If the ALLOWED_RECIPIENTS property is not set, you can use SYSTEM$SEND_EMAIL to send email messages to any Snowflake user in your
account, provided that the [user has verified their email address](../../user-guide/notifications/email-notifications.md).

To create an email notification integration without specifying a set of allowed recipients, execute the
[CREATE NOTIFICATION INTEGRATION](../../sql-reference/sql/create-notification-integration.md) command with TYPE=EMAIL without specifying ALLOWED_RECIPIENTS.

To remove the set of allowed recipients from an existing email notification integration, execute
[ALTER NOTIFICATION INTEGRATION … UNSET ALLOWED_RECIPIENTS](../../sql-reference/sql/alter-notification-integration.md).

For more information on sending email notifications, see [Using SYSTEM$SEND_EMAIL to send email notifications](../../user-guide/notifications/email-stored-procedures.md).

## Web Interface Updates

### Replication and Client Redirect in Snowsight — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of the Replication page in Snowsight. You can now create, edit, and monitor
replication and failover groups, and connections for Client Redirect using Snowsight.

In the Groups tab, you can create primary and secondary replication and failover groups, and edit existing groups. You can also view
the status and history of refresh operations, including detailed information about each refresh operation, for each replication and
failover group in your organization.

In the Client Redirect tab, you can create a connection, edit the target account for an existing connection, view details, and
monitor usage of connections in your organization.

For more information, see:

* [Replicating databases and account objects across multiple accounts](../../user-guide/account-replication-config.md)
* [Redirecting client connections](../../user-guide/client-redirect.md)

### Snowsight is the default interface for Snowflake accounts in US government regions

Starting November 6, 2023, all users in Snowflake accounts in US government regions see Snowsight after logging in.

For more information, see [About the Snowsight upgrade](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-upgrade-guide.md).

## Release Notes Change Log

| Announcement | Update | Date Updated |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Replication and Client Redirect in Snowsight — Preview* | **Added** to *Web Interface Updates* | 10-Nov-2023 |
