# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/7_41.md

# November 11-14, 2023 — 7.41 Release Notes (with behavior changes)

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release Notes Change Log.

## Behavior Change Bundles

This release contains the following behavior change bundles:

| Bundle Name | Status in this Release | Previous Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [2023_08](../bcr-bundles/2023_08_bundle.md) | Disabled by default; admins can enable for testing | N/A (introduced in this release) |
| [2023_07](../bcr-bundles/2023_07_bundle.md) | Enabled by default; admins can disable for opt-out | Disabled by default |
| [2023_06](../bcr-bundles/2023_06_bundle.md) | Generally enabled; admins can no longer enable/disable | Enabled by default |

The status for each bundle will change in the next behavior change release, planned for January 2024; however, this schedule is subject to
change.

For more information about bundle statuses and how they may impact your accounts, see [About Behavior Changes](../intro-bcr-releases.md).

## SQL Updates

### New SQL functions

The following function(s) are now available with this release:

| Function Category | New Function | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Encryption | [TRY_DECRYPT](../../sql-reference/functions/try_decrypt.md) | A special version of [DECRYPT](../../sql-reference/functions/decrypt.md) that returns a NULL value if an error occurs during decryption. |
| Encryption | [TRY_DECRYPT_RAW](../../sql-reference/functions/try_decrypt_raw.md) | A special version of [DECRYPT_RAW](../../sql-reference/functions/decrypt_raw.md) that returns a NULL value if an error occurs during decryption. |

### UDFs and Stored Procedures: Support for Optional Arguments

You can now specify that an argument in a UDF or stored procedure is optional. In the CREATE FUNCTION or CREATE PROCEDURE statement, use the new DEFAULT keyword to specify the default value for an optional argument. For example:

```sqlexample
CREATE FUNCTION my_udf(
  arg_1 VARCHAR,
  arg_2_optional VARCHAR DEFAULT 'default'
  arg_3_optional INTEGER DEFAULT 0) ...
```

When you call the UDF or stored procedure, you can omit any of the optional arguments:

```sqlexample
SELECT my_udf(arg_1 => 'value', arg_3_optional => 1);
```

For more information, see the [documentation on optional arguments for UDFs and stored procedures](../../developer-guide/udf-stored-procedure-arguments.md).

### Snowflake alerts: Manual execution of alerts

With this release, we are pleased to announce the new EXECUTE ALERT SQL command, which you can use to execute an alert manually.

You can use the EXECUTE ALERT command to:

* Verify that a new alert works as you would expect.
* Execute an alert at a specific point in your data pipeline (for example, at the end of a stored procedure call).

You can run the EXECUTE ALERT command interactively. You can also run this command within a stored procedure or a Snowflake Scripting block.

For more information, see [EXECUTE ALERT](../../sql-reference/sql/execute-alert.md).

## Security Updates

### Replication of network rules — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that network rules, which are currently in preview, are now replicated when you replicate the database in which they are contained. References between network policies and network policies are also replicated.

For more information, see [Replicating network policies](../../user-guide/account-replication-security-integrations.md).

## Data Pipeline Updates

### Dynamic tables: Support for GRANT <privilege> ON ALL/FUTURE DYNAMIC TABLE - Preview

As part of Behavior Change [bundle 2023_08](../bcr-bundles/2023_08_bundle.md), Snowflake has enabled support for granting privileges on all and future dynamic tables.

For more information, see [GRANT <privileges> … TO ROLE](../../sql-reference/sql/grant-privilege.md).

### Dynamic tables: Support for GRANT ALL/ALL PRIVILEGES ON DYNAMIC TABLE - Preview

As part of Behavior Change [bundle 2023_08](../bcr-bundles/2023_08_bundle.md), Snowflake has enabled support for bulk grants on dynamic tables.

For more information, see [Dynamic table privileges](../../user-guide/security-access-control-privileges.md).

## Web Interface Updates

### More control over notification contacts in Snowsight

Managing your notification contacts in Snowsight is improved, with more granular control over who can receive notifications for an organization or account, and the ability to send notifications to multiple email addresses.

For more information, see [About notification contacts for Snowflake](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-contacts.md).

### Snowsight is the default interface for Snowflake accounts in US government regions

Concluding the week of November 13, 2023, all users in Snowflake accounts in US government regions see Snowsight after logging in.

For more information, see [About the Snowsight upgrade](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-upgrade-guide.md).

### Changes to formatting of query results in worksheets and dashboards

As part of a behavior change in bundle 2023_07, query results no longer have automatic formatting applied in Snowsight.

For more information, see [Snowsight worksheets and dashboards: Changes to formatting of query results](../bcr-bundles/2023_07/bcr-1314.md).

## Release Notes Change Log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Dynamic tables: Support for GRANT <privilege> ON ALL/FUTURE DYNAMIC TABLE - Preview | **Added** to *Data Pipeline Updates* | 15-Nov-2023 |
| Dynamic tables: Support for GRANT ALL/ALL PRIVILEGES ON DYNAMIC TABLE - Preview | **Added** to *Data Pipeline Updates* | 15-Nov-2023 |
