# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/7_44.md

# December 14-15, 2023 — 7.44 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed. There are no differences between the in-advance and final versions of the release notes.

## New Features

### Organization Usage: Improved views for billing reconciliation — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that the following views in the Organization Usage schema have been improved to make it easier to reconcile Snowflake usage with monthly billing statements:

* CONTRACT_ITEMS
* RATE_SHEET_DAILY
* REMAINING_BALANCE_DAILY
* USAGE_IN_CURRENCY_DAILY

During a transition period, only new accounts have these upgraded views available by default. To inquire about upgrading your account, contact [Snowflake Support](https://docs.snowflake.com/user-guide/contacting-support).

* [CONTRACT_ITEMS view](../../sql-reference/organization-usage/contract_items.md)
* [RATE_SHEET_DAILY view](../../sql-reference/organization-usage/rate_sheet_daily.md)
* [REMAINING_BALANCE_DAILY view](../../sql-reference/organization-usage/remaining_balance_daily.md)
* [USAGE_IN_CURRENCY_DAILY view](../../sql-reference/organization-usage/usage_in_currency_daily.md)

## SQL Updates

### Snowflake Cortex ML-Based Time-Series Functions — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of the Snowflake Cortex ML-Based functions
Forecasting (SNOWFLAKE.ML.FORECAST) and Anomaly Detection (SNOWFLAKE.ML.ANOMALY_DETECTION), which were previously
available as preview features. These functions use a machine learning model trained on your historical data to make
predictions and detect unexpected events. You can also obtain evaluation metrics and feature importance data for these
models to learn what factors are driving trends and causing anomalies.

For more information, see [Forecasting](../../user-guide/ml-functions/anomaly-detection.md) and
[Anomaly Detection](../../user-guide/ml-functions/anomaly-detection.md).

## Ecosystem Updates

### Snowpark ML Modeling API — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of the Snowpark ML Modeling API, which was
previously available as a preview feature. Snowpark ML Modeling lets you train Python models inside Snowflake using APIs similar to those provided by Scikit-Learn,
LightGBM, and XGBoost. Many preprocessing classes run in distributed fashion, on as many nodes as are available in
your warehouse, cutting runtime significantly.

This feature is available in Snowpark ML 1.1.1 and later. For more information, see
[Snowpark ML Modeling](../../developer-guide/snowflake-ml/modeling.md).

### Snowpark ML Distributed Hyperparameter Optimization — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of distributed hyperparameter optimization in the
Snowpark ML Modeling API. Hyperparameter optimization allows you to find the best parameters for your models and can now be run in
distributed fashion, cutting runtime significantly. Distributed processing is enabled by default, but may be disabled.

This feature is available in Snowpark ML 1.1.1 and later. For more information, see
[Snowpark ML Modeling](../../developer-guide/snowflake-ml/modeling.md).

## Data Lake Updates

### Cross-Cloud/Cross-Region Support for Apache Iceberg™ Tables — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce cross-cloud/cross-region support for Apache Iceberg™ tables in Snowflake that use an external Iceberg catalog.

For more information, see [Cross-cloud/cross-region support](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg.md).

## Release Notes Change Log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 11-Dec-23 |
| *Snowflake Cortex ML-Based Time-Series Functions* | **Added** to *SQL Updates* | 19-Dec-23 |
| *Snowpark ML Modeling API*  *Snowpark ML Distributed Hyperparameter Optimization* | **Added** to *Ecosystem Updates* | 19-Dec-23 |
| *Cross-Cloud/Cross-Region Support for Apache Iceberg™ Tables* | **Added** to *Data Lake Updates* | 12-Jan-24 |
