# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_14.md

# April 08-15, 2024 — 8.14 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New regions

Effective immediately, Snowflake accounts can be provisioned in the following new region(s):

| Cloud Platform | Region |
| --- | --- |
| Amazon Web Services (AWS) | EU (Zurich) |

The new region(s) support all [Snowflake editions](../../user-guide/intro-editions.md). You can provision initial accounts in the region through
[self-service](https://signup.snowflake.com/) or a Snowflake representative.

## Extensibility updates

### Python UDTFs with vectorized process methods — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of Python UDTFs (user-defined table functions) with vectorized
process methods. This new feature provides a convenient way to operate over rows in batches when the method returns one output row for
each input row.

For more information, see [Vectorized Python UDTFs](../../developer-guide/udf/python/udf-python-tabular-vectorized.md).

## Snowflake Cortex updates

### Forecasting improvements in Snowflake Cortex ML Functions

With this release, we are pleased to announce that we have improved the algorithm behind
[Time-Series Forecasting](../../user-guide/ml-functions/forecasting.md), part of the
Snowflake Cortex ML Functions suite of analysis tools. The underlying approach remains the same; rather, we have changed
some parameters that, for most users, should:

* Reduce the incidence of trend extrapolation errors (incorrect trends)
* Improve accuracy on “noisy” time series

These improvements apply only to forecasting models trained with Snowflake 8.14 or later. Forecasting models trained
with previous versions continue to use the earlier model parameters.

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 08-Apr-24 |
| *Forecasting improvements in Snowflake Cortex ML Functions* | **Added** to *Snowflake Cortex updates* | 24-Apr-24 |
