# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_16.md

# April 22-24, 2024 — 8.16 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## SQL updates

### New SQL command(s)

The following commands(s) are now available with this release:

| Command Category | New Command | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Organization DDL | [SHOW ACCOUNTS](../../sql-reference/sql/show-accounts.md) | Lists all accounts in an organization, with the exclusion of managed accounts.  Currently duplicates the functionality of [SHOW ORGANIZATION ACCOUNTS](../../sql-reference/sql/show-organization-accounts.md). In a future release, the purpose and output of SHOW ORGANIZATION ACCOUNTS will change. |

### SQL API support for hybrid tables

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce support for the Snowflake SQL API when queries and other operations access data
in hybrid tables. The SQL API is a REST API that you can use to access and update data in a Snowflake database.

## Extensibility updates

### Asynchronous job support in Snowpark stored procedures

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce support for running concurrent asynchronous child jobs using Snowpark APIs
within stored procedure handler code written in Java, Python, or Scala. You can run an asynchronous query, as well as access its
status and result, or cancel the query.

## Data Lake Updates

### Apache Iceberg™ tables: Support for un-materialized identity partition columns

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce that you can create an Apache Iceberg™ table from an Iceberg data source that contains
un-materialized identity partition columns.

An un-materialized identity partition column is created when a table defines an identity transform
using a source column that doesn’t exist in a Parquet file.

Before release 8.16, this scenario was not supported.

For more information, see [Apache Iceberg™ tables](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 22-Apr-24 |
| *Asynchronous job support in Snowpark stored procedures* | **Added** to *Extensibility updates* section | 23-Apr-24 |
| *Support for granting the WRITE privilege on external stages* | **Removed** from *Data loading / unloading updates* section (and section removed) because this update was announced in the previous release | 23-Apr-24 |
| *Apache Iceberg™ tables: Support for un-materialized identity partition columns* | **Added** to *Data Lake Updates* | 26-Apr-24 |
