# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_18.md

# May 08-09, 2024 — 8.18 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## SQL updates

### Dynamic pivot available

A dynamic pivot query uses the ANY keyword or a subquery in the [PIVOT](../../sql-reference/constructs/pivot.md) subclause instead of specifying the pivot values explicitly.
With dynamic pivot, the pivot values are determined at runtime based on the use case.

### Added support for structured data types in UDFs

[Structured data types](../../sql-reference/data-types-structured.md) are now supported in user-defined functions (UDFs) created in [Java](../../developer-guide/udf/java/udf-java-introduction.md), [Python](../../developer-guide/udf/python/udf-python-introduction.md), and [Scala](../../developer-guide/udf/scala/udf-scala-introduction.md). For information about
data type mappings for structured data types, see [Data Type Mappings Between SQL and Handler Languages](../../developer-guide/udf-stored-procedure-data-type-mapping.md).

### New SQL functions

The following function(s) are now available with this release:

| Function Category | New Function | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Semi-structured (higher-order) | [FILTER](../../sql-reference/functions/filter.md) | Filters an [array](../../sql-reference/data-types-semistructured.md) based on the logic in a Lambda expression. |
| Semi-structured (higher-order) | [TRANSFORM](../../sql-reference/functions/transform.md) | Transforms an [array](../../sql-reference/data-types-semistructured.md) based on the logic in a Lambda expression. |
| System function | [SYSTEM$VALIDATE_STORAGE_INTEGRATION](../../sql-reference/functions/system_validate_storage_integration.md) | Validates the configuration for a specified storage integration. |

## Extensibility updates

### Python user-defined aggregate functions — *Preview*

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce the public preview of support for writing user-defined aggregate functions (UDAFs)
with a Python handler. You can use Snowpark Python APIs to create and call user-defined aggregate functions (UDAFs), which take one
or more rows as input and produce a single row of output. A UDAF operates on values across multiple rows to perform mathematical
calculations such as sum, average, counting, finding minimum or maximum values, standard deviation, and estimation, as well as some
non-mathematical operations.

For more information, see:

* [Python user-defined aggregate functions](../../developer-guide/udf/python/udf-python-aggregate-functions.md)
  :   (for SQL- and Python-based instructions)
* [Creating User-Defined Aggregate Functions (UDAFs) for DataFrames in Python](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/creating-udafs.md)
  :   (for a Snowpark Python-based guide)

### Access to external network locations on AWS in the Gov region — *Preview*

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce the public preview of access to external network locations from function and
procedure handlers for code deployed in the AWS Gov region.

When setting up external network access, you create a network rule that represents the external network location. If your handler
code will need to authenticate with the external location, you create a secret containing the credentials needed. In handler code,
you can use APIs to retrieve credential values from the secret.

For more information, see [External network access overview](../../developer-guide/external-network-access/external-network-access-overview.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 06-May-24 |
| *Validate storage integration* | **Added** to *New SQL functions* section | 09-May-24 |
