# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_19.md

# May 13-15, 2024 — 8.19 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Serverless alerts — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of the serverless compute model for Snowflake alerts.

When you configure an alert to use the serverless compute model, Snowflake automatically resizes and scales up or down the compute resources
required for the alert. Snowflake determines the ideal size of the compute resources for a given run based on a dynamic analysis of
statistics for the most recent previous runs of the same alert.

To use the serverless compute model for an alert, omit the WAREHOUSE parameter when executing the CREATE ALERT command.

For more information, see [Setting up alerts based on data in Snowflake](../../user-guide/alerts.md).

## Security updates

### Tri-Secret Secure self-registration

With this release, we are pleased to announce the Tri-Secret Secure self-registration process for customer-managed keys (CMKs). You can use
the process to register and activate a CMK for use with Tri-Secret Secure. Additionally, if you decide to replace a CMK, the
self-registration process informs you whether your new CMK is registered and activated. After you complete the self-registration process,
you can contact Snowflake Support to enable your Snowflake account to use Tri-Secret Secure.

For more information, see [Tri-Secret Secure in Snowflake](../../user-guide/security-encryption-tss.md).

## SQL updates

### Jinja2 template support for EXECUTE IMMEDIATE FROM — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of templating support for the EXECUTE IMMEDIATE FROM command. You can generate and
execute SQL scripts using a Jinja2 template file. Templating enables more flexible control structures and enables parameterization using
template variables. For example, the deployment target of the objects defined in a script can be dynamically chosen using a template file.

For more information, see [EXECUTE IMMEDIATE FROM](../../sql-reference/sql/execute-immediate-from.md).

## Data loading/unloading updates

### Resolved a known issue for INCLUDE_METADATA copy option

Previously, for CSV only, there was a known issue when the `INCLUDE_METADATA` copy option was used with `MATCH_BY_COLUMN_NAME`. With this release, we are pleased to announce that this issue is resolved.

For more information, see [Copy options (copyOptions)](../../sql-reference/sql/copy-into-table.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 13-May-24 |
| *Structured type evolution for Apache Iceberg™ tables* | **Removed** from *Data lake updates* section | 14-MAY-24 |
| *Resolved a known issue for INCLUDE_METADATA copy option* | **Added** to *Data loading/unloading updates* section | 15-MAY-24 |
