# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_23.md

# June 17-30, 2024 — 8.23 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Security updates

### Trust Center: Security Essentials scanner package — *General availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of the free Security Essentials scanner package in the Trust Center.

For more information, see [Security Essentials scanner package](../../user-guide/trust-center/overview.md).

## SQL updates

### Window functions: extended support for RANGE BETWEEN — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that RANGE BETWEEN window frames with explicit offsets (n PRECEDING and n FOLLOWING) are supported for the following window functions:

* COUNT
* SUM
* MIN
* MAX
* AVG

DISTINCT versions of these window functions do not support this syntax. RANGE BETWEEN window frames with explicit offsets support only one numeric or datetime ORDER BY expression.

This extended range-based functionality makes it easier to run moving aggregations when expected or unexpected missing records cause gaps to occur in time-series data sets.

For more information, see [Syntax](../../sql-reference/functions-window-syntax.md) and these additional sections:

* [RANGE BETWEEN n PRECEDING | n FOLLOWING](../../sql-reference/functions-window-syntax.md)
* [Range-based versus row-based window frames](../../user-guide/functions-window-using.md)
* [RANGE BETWEEN limitations](../../sql-reference/functions-window-syntax.md)
* [RANGE BETWEEN example with explicit numeric offsets](../../sql-reference/functions-window-syntax.md)

### Account Usage: TABLE_DML_HISTORY and TABLE_PRUNING_HISTORY views — *General availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the following Account Usage views:

* [TABLE_DML_HISTORY view](../../sql-reference/account-usage/table_dml_history.md) can be used to determine the magnitude and effects of the DML operations performed on a table.
* [TABLE_PRUNING_HISTORY view](../../sql-reference/account-usage/table_pruning_history.md) can be used to determine pruning efficiency for all tables.

## Data governance updates

### Data quality: add new system DMFs — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce new system data metric functions to support data quality measurements related to statistics and accuracy:

* SNOWFLAKE.CORE.AVG
* SNOWFLAKE.CORE.BLANK_COUNT
* SNOWFLAKE.CORE.BLANK_PERCENT
* SNOWFLAKE.CORE.MAX
* SNOWFLAKE.CORE.MIN
* SNOWFLAKE.CORE.NULL_PERCENT
* SNOWFLAKE.CORE.STDDEV

Data quality and data metric functions are in preview as of [March 29, 2024](other/2024-03-29-dmf.md).

For more information, see [System data metric functions](../../user-guide/data-quality-system-dmfs.md).

## Data pipelines updates

### ALTER DYNAMIC TABLE command: Support for adding search optimization and setting additional properties

With this release, you can now use the ALTER DYNAMIC TABLE command to do the following:

* Enable search optimization for your dynamic tables.
* Set the following properties for your dynamic tables:

  * Retention time
  * Comments
  * Default collation
  * Tags
  * Row access and masking policies

For more information, see [ALTER DYNAMIC TABLE](../../sql-reference/sql/alter-dynamic-table.md).

## Snowflake Native App Framework

### Updates to logging and tracing for a Snowflake Native App — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce enhancements to the logging and tracing functionality for a Snowflake Native App. These enhancements allow more granular filtering of the log and trace events that are shared with a provider. Providers can use event definitions to specify which log and trace events are required or optional for an app. Consumers can configure which log and trace events they want to share with a provider.

For more information, see [Enable logging and event sharing for an application](https://other-docs.snowflake.com/en/native-apps/consumer-enable-logging).

### New events generated during app installation and upgrade — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the addition of trace events that are generated when a Snowflake Native App is installed or upgraded. Consumers can view these events to determine the status of the app installation or upgrade.

For more information, see [Enable logging and event sharing for an application](https://other-docs.snowflake.com/en/native-apps/consumer-enable-logging).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 17-Jun-24 |
| *Trust Center: Security Essentials scanner package — General availability* | **Added** to *Security updates* section | 02-Jul-24 |
