# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_24.md

# July 01-03, 2024 — 8.24 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Security updates

### Trust Center: CIS Benchmarks scanner package — *General availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of the CIS Benchmarks scanner package in the Trust Center.

For more information, see [CIS Benchmarks scanner package](../../user-guide/trust-center/overview.md).

### Authentication policies: New multi-factor authentication parameters

With this release, we are pleased to announce the following new parameters for authentication policies:

* MFA_AUTHENTICATION_METHODS: A list of authentication methods that enforce multi-factor authentication (MFA) during login.
* MFA_ENROLLMENT: Determines whether a user must enroll in MFA.

For more information, see the following topics:

* [Hardening user or account authentication using MFA](../../user-guide/authentication-policies.md)
* [Authentication policy DDL commands reference](../../user-guide/authentication-policies.md)

> **Note:**
>
> If your network administrator enables these parameters, any installed clients, drivers, and the Snowflake CLI must have their
> connection settings reconfigured to enable MFA.

## Virtual warehouse updates

### Hybrid tables: Changes to capacity quotas — *Preview*

Default capacity quotas for hybrid table storage and requests are now enforced at the database level for all Snowflake accounts. Different databases within the same account are isolated instead of sharing the same quota. This release also introduces a new quota that limits the number of databases within a single Snowflake account that can contain hybrid tables.

For more information, see [Quotas and throttling](../../user-guide/tables-hybrid-limitations.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview)  Note that, at the time of publication, the 8.23 release was still in progress. | 24-Jun-24 |
| *Trust Center: CIS Benchmarks scanner package — General availability* | **Added** to *Security updates* section | 02-Jul-24 |
| *Hybrid tables: changes to capacity quotas — Preview* | **Added** to *Virtual warehouse updates* section | 08-Jul-24 |
