# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_26.md

# July 15-17, 2024 — 8.26 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Estimate the cost of Automatic Clustering — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce a new system function, SYSTEM$ESTIMATE_AUTOMATIC_CLUSTERING_COSTS, that estimates
the cost of enabling Automatic Clustering for a table and maintaining the table in a well-clustered state. It can also estimate
the cost of changing the clustering key for a clustered table.

For more information, see [SYSTEM$ESTIMATE_AUTOMATIC_CLUSTERING_COSTS](../../sql-reference/functions/system_estimate_automatic_clustering_costs.md).

## SQL updates

### New TYPE property for USER —— *General availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the new TYPE property for USER. The TYPE property lets you differentiate between
service and human users.

For more information, see [CREATE USER](../../sql-reference/sql/create-user.md).

## Extensibility updates

### Access to external network locations on AWS in the Gov region — *General availability*

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce the general availability of access to external network locations from function
and procedure handlers for code deployed in the AWS Gov region. External network access in the Azure Gov region is not supported.

When setting up external network access, you create a network rule that represents the external network location. If your handler
code will need to authenticate with the external location, you create a secret containing the credentials needed. In handler code,
you can use APIs to retrieve credential values from the secret.

For more information, see [External network access overview](../../developer-guide/external-network-access/external-network-access-overview.md).

## Cost management updates

### Support for Snowpark Container Services in custom budgets — *General availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that [custom budgets](../../user-guide/budgets.md) can now be used to monitor the cost of
compute pools associated with [Snowpark Container Services](../../developer-guide/snowpark-container-services/overview.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview)  Note that, at the time of publication, the 8.25 release was still in progress. | 12-Jul-24 |
| *Support for Snowpark Container Services in custom budgets — General availability* | **Added** to *Cost Management Updates* section | 16-Jul-24 |
