# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_27.md

# July 22-25, 2024 — 8.27 Release Notes (with behavior changes)

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Behavior change bundles

This release contains the following behavior change bundles:

| Bundle Name | Status in this Release | Previous Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [2024_06](../bcr-bundles/2024_06_bundle.md) | Disabled by default; admins can enable for testing | N/A (introduced in this release) |
| [2024_05](../bcr-bundles/2024_05_bundle.md) | Enabled by default; admins can disable for opt-out | Disabled by default |
| [2024_04](../bcr-bundles/2024_04_bundle.md) | Generally enabled; admins can no longer enable/disable | Enabled by default |

The status for each bundle will change in the next behavior change release, planned for August 2024; however, this schedule is subject to
change.

For more information about bundle statuses and how they may impact your accounts, see [About Behavior Changes](../intro-bcr-releases.md).

## New features

### Support for sending webhook notifications to Slack, Microsoft Teams, and PagerDuty

With this release, we are pleased to announce support for sending webhook notifications to the following systems:

* Slack
* Microsoft Teams
* PagerDuty

> **Note:**
>
> Snowflake does not send webhook notifications to external systems other than the ones listed above.

For more information, see [Sending webhook notifications](../../user-guide/notifications/webhook-notifications.md).

### Triggered tasks — *General availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of triggered tasks.

With triggered tasks, your tasks only run when the related stream has new data. This simplifies a common customer use case for frequently polling a source with unpredictable availability of new data, and reduces latency by immediately processing when there is new data.

For more information, see [Triggered tasks](../../user-guide/tasks-triggered.md).

## SQL updates

### GET_DDL function: Support for warehouses

With this release, we are pleased to announce support in the GET_DDL function for warehouses. You can call the GET_DDL function to get the DDL statement for recreating a warehouse.

For more information, see [GET_DDL](../../sql-reference/functions/get_ddl.md).

## Data governance updates

### Custom Data Classification — *General availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of Custom Classification.

Snowflake provides the CUSTOM_CLASSIFIER class in the SNOWFLAKE.DATA_PRIVACY schema to enable data engineers to extend Snowflake’s data classification capabilities based on their own knowledge of the data. You can define your own semantic category, specify the privacy category, and specify regular expressions along with a threshold to match column value patterns while optionally matching the column name.

For more information, see [Create custom categories for sensitive data](../../user-guide/classify-custom.md).

### Data Classification of tables in a schema with Snowsight — *General availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of using Snowsight to classify tables in a schema. You can also select custom classifiers (instances) that you can access to classify your data and determine whether to automatically assign tags to columns after classifying data.

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 19-Jul-24 |
| *Asynchronous Data Classification* | **Removed** from *Data Governance* section | 24-Jul-24 |
