# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_33.md

# September 03-05, 2024 — 8.33 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Snowflake REST APIs — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of Snowflake REST APIs.

Snowflake REST APIs for resource management provide a set of endpoints that lets users programmatically interact with and control various resources within the Snowflake Data Cloud. In this preview, Snowflake REST APIs supports APIs for the following resources:

* Compute Pool
* Cortex Analyst
* Cortex Inference
* Cortex Search Service
* Database
* Dynamic Table
* Function
* Grant
* Image Repository
* Role
* Schema
* Service
* Stage
* Table
* Task
* User
* Warehouse

For more details, see [Snowflake REST APIs](../../developer-guide/snowflake-rest-api/snowflake-rest-api.md).

## SQL updates

### SHOW commands: Support for new WITH PRIVILEGES parameter

With this release, we are pleased to announce support for the WITH PRIVILEGES parameter for the following SHOW commands:

* SHOW DATABASES
* SHOW SCHEMAS
* SHOW WAREHOUSES

The WITH PRIVILEGES parameter lets you limit results to databases, schemas, and warehouses for which the role executing the
statement has been granted the privileges specified in the list. For example, you can list all the databases you have been
granted the APPLYBUDGET privilege on before adding a database to a custom budget.

For more information, see [SHOW DATABASES](../../sql-reference/sql/show-databases.md), [SHOW SCHEMAS](../../sql-reference/sql/show-schemas.md), or [SHOW WAREHOUSES](../../sql-reference/sql/show-warehouses.md).

## Data lake updates

### Apache Iceberg™ tables: Catalog integration for Iceberg REST — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce preview support for connecting Snowflake to Apache Iceberg™ tables managed in a remote
catalog that complies with the open source Apache Iceberg REST OpenAPI specification.

For more information, see [Configure a catalog integration for Apache Iceberg™ REST catalogs](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg-configure-catalog-integration-rest.md).

### Iceberg tables: Delta table support — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce preview support for creating read-only Iceberg tables from Delta table files in
object storage.

For more information, see [CREATE ICEBERG TABLE (Delta files in object storage)](../../sql-reference/sql/create-iceberg-table-delta.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 30-Aug-24 |
| *Iceberg tables: Automated refresh* | **Removed** | 03-Sep-24 |
| *Snowflake REST APIs — Preview* | **Added** | 06-Sep-24 |
