# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_38.md

# October 07-09, 2024 — 8.38 Release Notes (with behavior changes)

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Behavior change bundles

This release contains the following behavior change bundles:

| Bundle Name | Status in this Release | Previous Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [2024_08](../bcr-bundles/2024_08_bundle.md) | Disabled by default; admins can enable for testing | N/A (introduced in this release) |
| [2024_07](../bcr-bundles/2024_07_bundle.md) | Enabled by default; admins can disable for opt-out | Disabled by default |
| [2024_06](../bcr-bundles/2024_06_bundle.md) | Generally enabled; admins can no longer enable/disable | Enabled by default |

The status for each bundle will change in the next behavior change release, planned for January 2025; however, this schedule
is subject to change.

For more information about bundle statuses and how they may impact your accounts, see [About Behavior Changes](../intro-bcr-releases.md).

## SQL updates

### New SQL functions

The following function(s) are now available with this release:

| Function category | New function | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Semi-structured | [ARRAY_REVERSE](../../sql-reference/functions/array_reverse.md) | Returns an array with the elements of the input array in reverse order. |

### Query objects larger than 16 MB in files on a stage

With this release, you can now query objects up to 128 MB in files on a stage. Although you still can’t store objects larger than 16 MB in a
column, you can reduce their size before storing them in columns. For example, you can split large objects across multiple columns or rows,
transform nested JSON into a tabular format, or simplify complex geometries.

> **Note:**
>
> With the 9.17 release, you can now store objects larger than 16 MB in a column. For more information,
> see [Size limits for database objects](../../user-guide/data-load-considerations-prepare.md).

## Data pipeline updates

### Dynamic tables: Updates to input types

Before this release, if a dynamic table read from a regular table that was dropped and replaced by a new dynamic table with the same name,
the refresh would fail, requiring the dynamic table to be recreated. Now, the refresh will succeed without user intervention.

The same applies if a dynamic table reads from another dynamic table, and that dynamic table is replaced by a table. In both cases, the
refresh now succeeds.

This change makes table/view/dynamic table input types interchangeable, but it only applies to dynamic table created after October 10, 2024.

## Data governance updates

### Data quality: New SYSTEM$DATA_METRIC_SCAN function

With this release, we are pleased to announce a new system function, SYSTEM$DATA_METRIC_SCAN, that returns records that failed a data
quality check. Previously, you could use data metric functions to identify data quality issues but did not have the ability to pinpoint the
records responsible for the problems.

With this new capability, you can use a single command to extract records that failed data quality checks. This simplifies the
identification of problematic records in your data and makes it easier to remediate data quality issues.

For more information, see [SYSTEM$DATA_METRIC_SCAN](../../sql-reference/functions/system_data_metric_scan.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 04-Oct-24 |
| *Apache Iceberg™ tables: New SYSTEM$VERIFY_EXTERNAL_VOLUME function* | **Postponed** to a later release. | 08-Oct-2024 |
| *Data quality: New SYSTEM$DATA_METRIC_SCAN function* | **Added** to *Data governance updates* section. | 09-Oct-2024 |
| *Dynamic tables: Updates to input types* | **Added** to *Data pipeline updates* section | 13-Jun-2025 |
