# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_41.md

# October 28-30, 2024 — 8.41 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Outbound private connectivity for Snowflake features

By default, Snowflake features that generate outbound network traffic from Snowflake to a cloud platform traverse the public Internet. With
this release, we are pleased to announce that you can create private endpoints in Snowflake to access the cloud platform using the platform’s
private connectivity solution rather than the Internet. This lets you access cloud platform services privately and securely from Snowflake.

With this release, outbound private connectivity is now available for the following Snowflake features:

#### External network access from Snowpark using AWS PrivateLink and Azure Private Link — *General availability*

You can configure external network access and create a private endpoint to use private connectivity to connect to an external network location
from a UDF/UDTF or stored procedure within Snowpark. Snowflake accounts on AWS can use AWS PrivateLink to access the external network location
and Snowflake accounts on Azure can use Azure Private Link.

For more information, see:

* [External network access and private connectivity on AWS](../../developer-guide/external-network-access/creating-using-private-aws.md)
* [External network access and private connectivity on Microsoft Azure](../../developer-guide/external-network-access/creating-using-private-azure.md)

#### External network access from Snowpark Container Services via AWS PrivateLink and Azure Private Link - *Preview*

You can configure external network access and create a private endpoint so outgoing network traffic from Snowpark Container Services uses AWS
PrivateLink or Azure Private Link instead of the public Internet.

For more information, see [Network egress using private connectivity](../../developer-guide/snowpark-container-services/service-network-communications.md).

#### External functions using Azure Private Link — *General availability*

You can configure an external function and create a private endpoint to use Azure Private Link when calling executable code that is developed,
maintained, stored, and executed in Azure. You can securely connect to the Azure resource via Azure API Management, using both the Azure
Portal and the Azure ARM template.

For more information, see:

* [Private connectivity with external functions: Azure ARM template](../../sql-reference/external-functions-creating-azure-template-private-connect.md)
* [Private connectivity with external functions: Azure Portal](../../sql-reference/external-functions-creating-azure-ui-private-connect.md)

For general information about using outbound private connectivity with these Snowflake features, see [Private connectivity for outbound network traffic](../../user-guide/private-connectivity-outbound.md).

### EXECUTE IMMEDIATE FROM: Preview SQL rendered from Jinja2 templates

With this release, we are pleased to announce support for previewing the SQL statements rendered by Jinja2 templates.

If you are using the EXECUTE IMMEDIATE FROM command to render and execute SQL statements from a Jinja2 template, you can preview the rendered
statements without executing them by specifying `DRY_RUN=TRUE`. This parameter is useful for debugging templating code and for previewing
SQL statements from staged files not intended for execution.

For more information, see [EXECUTE IMMEDIATE FROM](../../sql-reference/sql/execute-immediate-from.md).

### GENERATE_SYNTHETIC_DATA: New system stored procedure for generating synthetic data — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of the GENERATE_SYNTHETIC_DATA system stored procedure. With the synthetic data
generation feature, you can now programmatically create realistic datasets that closely mirror your original data. This allows you to
represent sensitive, confidential, or restricted information across various workloads, such as testing and validation.

For more information, see [GENERATE_SYNTHETIC_DATA](../../sql-reference/stored-procedures/generate_synthetic_data.md).

## Security updates

### Increased limits for network policies on internal stages

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of using network policies to restrict incoming network traffic to the
internal stages of AWS accounts.

For Business Critical or higher customers, this release increases the limits on how many network identifiers can be included in a network
policy.

For more information, see [Protecting internal stages on AWS](../../user-guide/network-policies.md).

## SQL updates

### Extended support for bind variables

You can use bind variables to replace literals in SQL statements, which allows applications to dynamically construct SQL statements based on
user input. Bind variables are commonly used with Snowflake drivers, Snowflake Scripting, and the SQL REST API.

With this release, Snowflake extends support for bind variables so that you can use them for more use cases. The extended support includes
the use of bind variables for stage names and other parameters in COPY INTO <table> statements.

For more information, see a [Example that uses bind variables to set parameters in a command](../../developer-guide/stored-procedure/stored-procedures-snowflake-scripting.md).

## Extensibility updates

### Writing files from Snowpark Python UDFs and UDTFs — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of Writing files from Snowpark Python UDFs and UDTFs. With this feature in Snowpark
Python, you can now write files to stages using user-defined functions (UDFs), vectorized UDFs, user-defined table functions (UDTFs), and
vectorized UDTFs.

For more information, see [Writing files from Snowpark Python UDFs and UDTFs](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/creating-udfs.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 25-Oct-24 |
