# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_44.md

# November 18-21, 2024 — 8.44 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Outbound private connectivity for Snowflake features

Outbound private connectivity lets you create private endpoints in Snowflake to access a cloud platform using the platform’s private
connectivity solution rather than the Internet. This lets you access cloud platform services privately and securely from Snowflake.

With this release, outbound private connectivity is now available for the following Snowflake features:

* External stages using Azure Private Link —- Preview
* External volumes using Azure Private Link —- Preview
* Snowpipe automation using Azure Private Link — Preview

#### External stages using Azure Private Link —- *Preview*

You can configure an external stage and create a private endpoint so bulk loading from Azure storage occurs over Azure Private Link.

For more information, see [Private connectivity to external stages and Snowpipe automation for Microsoft Azure](../../user-guide/data-load-azure-private.md).

#### External volumes using Azure Private Link —- *Preview*

You can configure an external volume and create a private endpoint so you can connect Snowflake to your external cloud storage for Iceberg
tables using Azure Private Link instead of the public Internet.

For more information, see [Configure an external volume for Azure](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg-configure-external-volume-azure.md).

#### Snowpipe automation using Azure Private Link — *Preview*

You can configure an external stage and notification integration, and create a private endpoint, so that automatic Snowpipe data loads that
are triggered by Microsoft Azure Event Grid use Azure Private Link instead of the public Internet.

For more information, see [Private connectivity to external stages and Snowpipe automation for Microsoft Azure](../../user-guide/data-load-azure-private.md).

For general information about using outbound private connectivity with these Snowflake features, see [Private connectivity for outbound network traffic](../../user-guide/private-connectivity-outbound.md).

### Visual Studio Code extension for Snowpark Python — *General availability*

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce that the Snowflake Visual Studio Code extension now integrates with Snowpark Python to
provide authoring and debugging features for Snowpark Python code.

These new features include:

* Inline debugging of Snowpark Python functions.
* Syntax highlighting and autocomplete suggestions for Snowflake SQL in Python strings within Python files or notebook cells.
* Syntax highlighting and bracket autocomplete of Jinja templates in Snowflake SQL.

For more information, see [Snowflake Extension for Visual Studio Code](../../user-guide/vscode-ext.md).

## Extensibility updates

### External network access for Azure Gov regions — *General availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce general availability of external network access in Azure Gov regions. Access network locations
external to Snowflake from within procedure and UDF handler code is now generally available in all regions.

For more information, see [External network access overview](../../developer-guide/external-network-access/external-network-access-overview.md).

## Data lake updates

### Specify an external ID for SIGV4 REST catalog integrations

With this release, we are pleased to announce support for specifying an external ID when you create a catalog integration for Apache Iceberg™
REST that uses SIGV4 authentication.

Specifying an external ID lets you use the same IAM role across multiple catalog integrations. This can be useful in testing scenarios when
you need to recreate or replace a catalog integration many times.

For more information, see [CREATE CATALOG INTEGRATION (Apache Iceberg™ REST)](../../sql-reference/sql/create-catalog-integration-rest.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 15-Nov-24 |
