# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_46.md

# December 09-13, 2024 — 8.46 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Restricted caller’s rights — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of restricted caller’s rights. Previously, when an executable like a stored procedure
ran with the privileges of the caller of the executable (caller’s rights), the executable could run with all of the caller’s privileges.
Restricted caller’s rights allows an executable to run with caller’s rights, but restricts which of the caller’s privileges the executable
runs with. Administrators use caller grants to specify which of the caller’s privileges the executable can use to perform an operation.

For more information, see [Restricted caller’s rights](../../developer-guide/restricted-callers-rights.md).

## Snowsight updates

### New login screen version

With this release, a new version of the login screen is now available, offering improved performance and enhanced security. The updated login
screen retains the same behavior and appearance as before, requiring no configuration or routing updates.

For more information, see the [Snowflake Knowledge Base](https://community.snowflake.com/s/article/New-SIgn-In-Screen).

## SQL Updates

### New SQL functions

The following function(s) are now generally available with this release:

| Function Category | New Function | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Information Schema, Table Functions | [AVAILABLE_LISTING_REFRESH_HISTORY](../../sql-reference/functions/available_listing_refresh_history.md) | Returns the past 14 days of refresh history for a database mounted from a listing using cross-cloud auto-fulfillment. |

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 06-Dec-24 |
| AVAILABLE_LISTING_REFRESH_HISTORY | New function | 13-Dec-24 |
