# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_03.md

# 9.3 Release notes: Feb 18, 2025-Feb 21, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Tasks now support lower scheduling intervals (*General availability*)

Tasks now support lower scheduling executions as frequent as every 10 seconds. (The previous minimum scheduling interval was 1 minute.)

### Data lineage (*General availability*)

Data lineage automatically tracks the flow of data between Snowflake objects in real-time, for example, from a table to a view. You can track
the lineage of table-like objects, columns, and stages as well as the lineage between data objects and machine learning objects like datasets,
feature views, and models. You can use lineage information to assist in impact analysis, monitoring, troubleshooting, and compliance efforts.
Lineage can also help you propagate knowledge of sensitive data elements using tags.

> Lineage information is available through Snowsight, SQL, and Python. For more information, see:
> :   *[Data Lineage](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-lineage.md)
> * [GET_LINEAGE SQL function](../../sql-reference/functions/get_lineage-snowflake-core.md)
> * [Snowpark ML lineage API](../../developer-guide/snowflake-ml/ml-lineage.md)

## SQL updates

### SEARCH function: Support for conjunctive semantics

With this release, the [SEARCH](../../sql-reference/functions/search.md) function supports conjunctive (AND) semantics. Before this release, the function only supported disjunctive (OR)
semantics. To specify the semantics for a full-text search using the function, set the new SEARCH_MODE argument to ‘AND’ or ‘OR’.

When you specify ‘AND’ for the SEARCH_MODE argument, there is a match if the tokens extracted from at least one of the columns or fields being
searched match all of the tokens extracted from the search string. The matching tokens must all be in one column or field; they can’t be
spread across multiple columns or fields.

## Extensibility updates

### Support for a wildcard character in network rule network identifiers (*General availability*)

With this release, support for using an asterisk as a wildcard character when specifying a network identifier for a network rule in its
VALUE_LIST parameter is generally available.

For more information, see [CREATE NETWORK RULE](../../sql-reference/sql/create-network-rule.md).

### Support for telemetry metrics and custom spans, with visualizations in Snowsight (*General availability*)

With this release, support for collecting metrics data, implementing custom spans, and viewing log, trace, and metric data in Snowsight is
generally available. Metrics data provides signs of resource consumption by using CPU and memory metrics. With custom spans, you can get
finer-grained tracing within the handler for a procedure or function. Snowsight provides visualizations for collected data with which you can
analyze and optimize your code. This telemetry can be found under the Monitoring tab from the [Snowsight](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md) home page.

For more information, see [Adding custom spans to a trace](../../developer-guide/logging-tracing/tracing-custom-spans.md), [Collecting metrics data](../../developer-guide/logging-tracing/metrics.md), [Viewing log messages](../../developer-guide/logging-tracing/logging-accessing-messages.md), and [Viewing trace data](../../developer-guide/logging-tracing/tracing-accessing-events.md).

For an introduction to observability in Snowflake, see [Observability in Snowflake apps](../../developer-guide/builders/observability.md).

## Data pipeline updates

### Dynamic tables: Support for UNION ALL

Dynamic tables now support the following use cases for [UNION ALL](../../sql-reference/operators-query.md) for both full and incremental refresh:

> * UNION ALL of a table and itself or a clone of itself.
> * UNION ALL between a GROUP BY or DISTINCT and another GROUP BY or DISTINCT.

## Data lake updates

### Cloning support for Snowflake-managed Apache Iceberg™ tables (*General availability*)

With this release, support for cloning Snowflake-managed Iceberg tables is available.

For more information, see [CREATE <object> … CLONE](../../sql-reference/sql/create-clone.md) and [Cloning and Apache Iceberg™ tables](../../user-guide/object-clone.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 17-Feb-25 |
| Dynamic tables: Support for multiple window functions with different PARTITION BY clauses | Removed support | 24-Feb-25 |
