# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_08.md

# 9.8 Release notes: Mar 31, 2025-Apr 04, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Security updates

### Trust Center: Risky Human and Service User scanners

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce two additional scanners: Human User MFA Readiness and Service User Passwordless Readiness.
As part of the Threat Intelligence scanner package, the new scanners allow you to check for risky human and service users to further reduce
security vulnerabilities.

* **Human User MFA Readiness Scanners** identify human users who have signed in with just a password in the last 90 days and haven’t yet set up
  multi-factor authentication (MFA). It also flags human users who haven’t logged in in 90 days but still have a password set.
* **Service User Passwordless Readiness** looks for Legacy service users who have recently logged in with a password and haven’t removed it. It
  also flags service users who haven’t logged in in 90 days but still have a password set.

For more information, see the [Threat Intelligence scanner package](../../user-guide/trust-center/overview.md).

## SQL updates

### Asynchronous refresh for failover groups and replication groups

With this release, you can call the function SYSTEM$SCHEDULE_ASYNC_REPLICATION_GROUP_REFRESH
to perform the same refresh as the command ALTER FAILOVER GROUP … REFRESH or ALTER REPLICATION GROUP … REFRESH.
The refresh operations from this function happen asynchronously, so you can continue doing work while the refreshes
are in progress.

For more information, see [SYSTEM$SCHEDULE_ASYNC_REPLICATION_GROUP_REFRESH](../../sql-reference/functions/system_schedule_async_replication_group_refresh.md).

### Bind variables in SHOW commands

With this release, you can use [bind variables](../../sql-reference/bind-variables.md) with the LIKE and LIMIT keywords in
[SHOW](../../sql-reference/sql/show.md) commands. For example, the following SHOW command,
which could be included in a [Javascript](../../developer-guide/stored-procedure/stored-procedures-javascript.md) stored procedure, uses bind variables:

```sqlexample
SHOW TABLES LIKE ? LIMIT ?;
```

The following example uses bind variables in a SHOW command in a [Snowflake Scripting](../../developer-guide/snowflake-scripting/index.md) block:

```sqlexample
BEGIN
  LET a INT := 10;
  LET p STRING := 'mytable';
  LET res RESULTSET := (SHOW TABLES LIKE :p LIMIT :a);
  RETURN TABLE(res);
END;
```

## Data lake updates

### Apache Iceberg™ tables: Row-level deletes for externally managed tables (*Preview*)

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of [row-level deletes](https://iceberg.apache.org/spec/?#row-level-deletes)
support with positional delete files when external engines perform update, delete, and merge operations on externally managed Iceberg tables
in Snowflake.

For more information, see [Use row-level deletes](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg-manage.md).

### Apache Iceberg™ tables: Delta table support (*General availability*)

With this release, we are pleased to announce general availability support for creating read-only Iceberg tables from Delta Lake tables stored
in object storage. Creating Iceberg tables sourced from Delta Lake delta logs provides the ability to perform efficient Lakehouse analytics
in Snowflake and generate Iceberg metadata for consumption in an Iceberg engine ecosystem.

For more information, see [CREATE ICEBERG TABLE (Delta files in object storage)](../../sql-reference/sql/create-iceberg-table-delta.md).

### New database properties: CATALOG_SYNC_NAMESPACE_MODE and CATALOG_SYNC_NAMESPACE_FLATTEN_DELIMITER

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce the release of two new database properties:

* CATALOG_SYNC_NAMESPACE_MODE
* CATALOG_SYNC_NAMESPACE_FLATTEN_DELIMITER

This allows you to query Snowflake-managed Apache Iceberg™ tables in Open Catalog by using a third-party engine that can only query tables
located up to the second namespace level in a catalog, such as Trino.

Use the `FLATTEN` setting for the CATALOG_SYNC_NAMESPACE_MODE property to sync a Snowflake-managed Iceberg table to Snowflake Open Catalog with
one parent namespace by flattening the table’s two parent namespaces into one namespace. Use the CATALOG_SYNC_NAMESPACE_FLATTEN_DELIMITER
property to insert a delimiter in the resulting namespace to avoid conflicts that could arise from flattening the two parent namespaces.
You specify these properties when you create a database.

For more information, see [CREATE DATABASE](../../sql-reference/sql/create-database.md) and [Sync a Snowflake-managed table with Snowflake Open Catalog](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg-open-catalog-sync.md).

For example, when you set the CATALOG_SYNC_NAMESPACE_MODE property to `FLATTEN` and specify a hyphen (`-`) for the
CATALOG_SYNC_NAMESPACE_FLATTEN_DELIMITER property, Snowflake syncs the `customer.data.table1` and `custom.erdata.table1` Snowflake-managed
Iceberg tables to the `catalog1` external catalog in Open Catalog with the following fully qualified names:

* `catalog1.customer-data.table1`
* `catalog1.custom-erdata.table1`

If you use the default for the CATALOG_SYNC_NAMESPACE_MODE property (`NEST`), Snowflake continues to sync the table to Open Catalog with two
parent namespaces and the CATALOG_SYNC_NAMESPACE_FLATTEN_DELIMITER property isn’t required.

## Snowpark Container Services updates

### Automatic suspension of a Snowpark Container Services service (*Preview*)

With this release, we are pleased to announce a preview of support for the AUTO_SUSPEND_SECS service property to define the inactivity duration after which Snowflake automatically suspends the service.

For more information, see [CREATE SERVICE](../../sql-reference/sql/create-service.md) and [ALTER SERVICE](../../sql-reference/sql/alter-service.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 21-Mar-25 |
| Automatic suspension of a Snowpark Container Services service — Preview | **Added** to *Snowpark Container Services updates* section | 27-Mar-25 |
