# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_11.md

# 9.11 Release notes: Apr 28, 2025-May 02, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Snowflake Native Apps session debugging (*General availability*)

Session debugging for Snowflake Native Apps is now generally available. Session debug mode allows providers to view and modify all of the
objects within the app and execute statements using the same privileges that the app has when installed in the consumer account.

See [Session debug mode](../../developer-guide/native-apps/installing-testing-application.md) for more information.

### Writing files from Snowpark Python UDFs and UDTFs (*General availability*)

Snowflake supports writing files from Snowpark Python UDFs and UDTFs.

For more information, see [Writing files from Snowpark Python UDFs and UDTFs](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/creating-udfs.md).

## Extensibility updates

### Support for allowing requests to all outbound endpoints from functions and procedures (*General availability*)

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of support for allowing requests to all outbound endpoints
with external access from a function or procedure. You can do this by specifying `0.0.0.0` as the domain in a value of the CREATE
NETWORK RULE command’s VALUE_LIST parameter.

For more information, see the VALUE_LIST parameter of [CREATE NETWORK RULE](../../sql-reference/sql/create-network-rule.md).

## Data lake updates

### Support for Iceberg tables in the People’s Republic of China (*General availability*)

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of support for
Apache Iceberg™ tables in the People’s Republic of China.

For more information, see [Apache Iceberg™ tables](https://docs.snowflake.cn/en/user-guide/tables-iceberg).

## Decommissioned runtimes

### Python 3.8 decommissioned

Snowflake no longer supports Python 3.8. For more information on runtime deprecation and decommission schedules, see [Deprecating and decommissioning runtimes (end of support)](../../developer-guide/python-runtime-support-policy.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 18-Apr-25 |
| Writing files from Snowpark Python UDFs and UDTFs (General availability) | **Added** to *New features* section | 23-Apr-25 |
| Python 3.8 decommissioned | **Added** to *Decommissioned runtimes* section | 23-Apr-25 |
| Support for allowing requests to all outbound endpoints from functions and procedures (General availability) | **Added** to *Extensibility updates* section | 24-Apr-25 |
| Support for Iceberg tables in the People’s Republic of China (General availability) | **Added** to *Data lake updates* section | 01-May-25 |
