# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_12.md

# 9.12 Release notes (with behavior changes): May 05, 2025-May 12, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Behavior change bundles

This release contains the following behavior change bundles:

| Bundle Name | Status in this Release | Previous Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [2025_03](../bcr-bundles/2025_03_bundle.md) | Disabled by default; admins can enable for testing | N/A (introduced in this release) |
| [2025_02](../bcr-bundles/2025_02_bundle.md) | Enabled by default; admins can disable for opt-out | Disabled by default |
| [2025_01](../bcr-bundles/2025_01_bundle.md) | Generally enabled; admins can no longer enable/disable | Enabled by default |

The status for each bundle will change in the next behavior change release, planned for June 2025; however, this schedule is subject to
change.

For more information about bundle statuses and how they may impact your accounts, see [About Behavior Changes](../intro-bcr-releases.md).

## New features

### Release channels for Snowflake Native Apps (*General availability*)

With this release, the release channels feature in Snowflake Native Apps is generally available.

Release channels allow providers to publish apps at different stages of the app development lifecycle. For example, a provider can use release channels to perform the following tasks for a version or patch of an app:

* Test an app.
* Publish an app to consumers as a preview or for UAT (user acceptance testing).
* Publish the app to a production environment.

For more information, see [Publish an app using release channels](../../developer-guide/native-apps/release-channels.md).

## SQL Updates

### Improved error messages for Data Manipulation Language (DML) commands

In past releases, error messages for [DML commands](../../sql-reference/sql-dml.md) didn’t include the column name for errors that
involved a specific column. With this release, some error messages for DML commands include the column name. Note that the column
name isn’t included in all DML error messages.

For example, the following SQL statements return a DML error message:

```sqlexample
CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE demo_dml_error_message (v VARCHAR);

INSERT INTO demo_dml_error_message (v) VALUES
  (3),
  ('d');
```

In past releases, the following error message was returned:

```output
100038 (22018): Numeric value 'd' is not recognized
```

With this release, the following error message is returned:

```output
100038 (22018): DML operation to table DEMO_INSERT_TYPE_MISMATCH failed on
column V with error: Numeric value 'd' is not recognized
```

### New SQL functions

The following functions are now available with this release:

| Function subcategory | New function | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cardinality estimation | DATASKETCHES_HLL (Preview) | Returns an approximation of the distinct cardinality of the input (that is, `DATASKETCHES_HLL(col1)` returns an approximation of `COUNT(DISTINCT col1)`). |
| Cardinality estimation | DATASKETCHES_HLL_ACCUMULATE (Preview) | Returns the sketch at the end of aggregation. |
| Cardinality estimation | DATASKETCHES_HLL_COMBINE (Preview) | Combines (merges) input sketches into a single output sketch. |
| Cardinality estimation | DATASKETCHES_HLL_ESTIMATE (Preview) | Returns the cardinality estimate for the given sketch. |

## Extensibility updates

### Built-in code profiler for Python stored procedures (*General availability*)

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of built-in code profiling for stored procedure handler
code written in Python. Using the profiler, you can discover how much time or memory was spent executing your handler code.
The profiler generates information describing how much time or memory was spent executing each line of the procedure handler.

For procedures written in SQL, see [Profiling Python procedure handler code](../../developer-guide/stored-procedure/python/procedure-python-profiler.md).

For procedures written with the Snowpark API, see [Profiling Snowpark Python stored procedure handlers](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/profiling-procedure-handlers.md).

## Data loading / unloading updates

### Support for internal stage cloning (*General availability*)

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of support for internal stage cloning when you clone a database or schema.

For more information, see [CREATE <object> … CLONE](../../sql-reference/sql/create-clone.md).

### Vectorized scanner now available without ON_ERROR restrictions

Previously, enabling the vectorized scanner required the `ON_ERROR` option to be set to either `ABORT_STATEMENT` or
`SKIP_FILE`. This limitation has been removed.

You can now leverage the performance benefits of the vectorized scanner regardless of the `ON_ERROR` setting you choose,
including `CONTINUE`, `SKIP_FILE_num`, and `'SKIP_FILE_num%'`. This provides greater flexibility in configuring
your data loading processes while still taking advantage of optimized scanning.

For more information, see [USE_VECTORIZED_SCANNER](../../sql-reference/sql/copy-into-table.md).

## Data governance updates

### Sensitive data classification: New classifiers for India

The following [sensitive data classifiers](../../user-guide/classify-intro.md) now support the protection of sensitive data in India:

* NATIONAL_IDENTIFIER (Permanent account number (PAN), Aadhaar, and Voter ID)
* DRIVERS_LICENSE
* TAX_IDENTIFIER (Goods and Service Tax Identification Number (GSTIN))

## Snowpark Container Services updates

### Using caller’s rights to connect to Snowflake (*General availability*)

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of
[connecting to Snowflake from inside a container using caller’s rights](../../developer-guide/snowpark-container-services/spcs-execute-sql.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 25-Apr-25 |
| New authentication methods for multi-factor authentication (MFA) (General availability) | **Added** to Security section | 28-Apr-25 |
| Using caller’s rights to connect to Snowflake (General availability) | **Added** to Snowpark Container Services section | 30-Apr-25 |
| Snowflake Scripting output (OUT) arguments (General availability) | **Removed** from SQL Updates section | 30-Apr-25 |
| Vectorized scanner now available without ON_ERROR restrictions | **Added** to Data loading / unloading section | 08-May-25 |
| New maximum size limits for database objects (General availability) | **Removed** from SQL Updates section | 12-May-25 |
| New authentication methods for multi-factor authentication (MFA) (General availability) | **Removed** from Security section | 12-May-25 |
