# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_13.md

# 9.13 Release notes: May 19, 2025-May 20, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Security updates

### Outbound private connectivity for AWS Government regions

You can use AWS PrivateLink for outbound network traffic originating from AWS Government regions.

For information about using AWS PrivateLink for outbound network traffic, see [Manage private connectivity endpoints: AWS](../../user-guide/private-manage-endpoints-aws.md).

## SQL updates

### Pipe operator

With this release, you can use the new pipe operator (`->>`) to chain SQL statements together. In the chain of SQL statements, the results of
one statement can serve as the input to another statement. The pipe operator can simplify the execution of dependent SQL statements and
improve the readability and flexibility of complex SQL operations.

For more information, see [Flow operators](../../sql-reference/operators-flow.md).

## Data loading/unloading updates

### INFER_SCHEMA function: Support for Apache Iceberg™ data types

With this release, you can now automatically retrieve the column definitions for Apache Iceberg data types from a set of staged data files
that contain semi-structured data. To retrieve these column definitions, set the new `KIND` argument for the INFER_SCHEMA function to
`ICEBERG`.

With this new feature, you can use the CREATE ICEBERG TABLE … USING TEMPLATE variant syntax to create an Iceberg table with the column
definitions derived from INFER_SCHEMA using the `KIND=>'ICEBERG'` output.

To learn more, see [INFER_SCHEMA](../../sql-reference/functions/infer_schema.md).

## Data lake updates

### Cross-cloud/cross-region support for Snowflake-managed Apache Iceberg™ tables

With this release, Snowflake supports cross-cloud/cross-region writes (and reads) to Iceberg tables that use Snowflake as the catalog. In
the DATA_TRANSFER_HISTORY view, the cross-region data transfer charges for these tables appear as a TRANSFER_TYPE of DATA_LAKE.
For more information, see the following:

> * [Cross-cloud/cross-region support](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg.md)
> * [DATA_TRANSFER_HISTORY view](../../sql-reference/organization-usage/data_transfer_history.md) in the ORGANIZATION_USAGE schema
> * [DATA_TRANSFER_HISTORY view](../../sql-reference/account-usage/data_transfer_history.md) in the ACCOUNT_USAGE schema

In addition, you can now convert a cross-cloud/cross-region Iceberg table that uses an external catalog to use Snowflake as the catalog.
For more information, see [Convert an Apache Iceberg™ table to use Snowflake as the catalog](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg-conversion.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 09-May-25 |
