# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_14.md

# 9.14 Release notes: May 23, 2025-May 28, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Trust Center: In-app notifications (*Preview*)

With this release, you receive Trust Center notifications in Snowsight about accounts that haven’t enrolled in
multi-factor authentication (MFA). For information about enabling, viewing, and disabling Trust Center notifications for your account in
Snowsight, see [Enable notifications from Trust Center](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-profile.md).

### Trust Center: New Abnormal Failure Rate Detection scanners

The Trust Center now has two new scanners in the Threat Intelligence scanner package. These two new scanners help you find users with a high
number of authentication failures or job errors, which can indicate attempted takeovers of an account, misconfigurations, exceeded quotas,
or permission issues.

For more information, see [Threat Intelligence scanner package](../../user-guide/trust-center/overview.md).

## Snowpark Python version updates

With this release, we are pleased to announce general availability of support for Python version 3.12.

## SQL updates

### Search optimization: Support for Apache Iceberg™ tables

With this release, search optimization can improve the performance of queries on Iceberg tables. To configure search optimization for an Iceberg table, use ALTER ICEBERG TABLE … ADD SEARCH OPTIMIZATION.

For more information, see [Support for Apache Iceberg™ tables](../../user-guide/search-optimization/queries-that-benefit.md) in the search optimization documentation.

### Query Acceleration Service: Support for Apache Iceberg™ tables

With this release, we are pleased to announce support for the Query Acceleration Service (QAS) for Iceberg tables.
The QAS accelerates scan performance and inserts on Iceberg tables. When you use a QAS-enabled warehouse to
query an Iceberg table, QAS accelerates the query if it’s eligible for acceleration.

As a result of this change, QAS might incur additional credits.

For more information, see [Using the Query Acceleration Service (QAS)](../../user-guide/query-acceleration-service.md).

### Data types: Structured types support for standard Snowflake tables (*Preview*)

With this release, you can define a structured type column in a standard Snowflake table.

> **Note:**
>
> Structured types are generally available for Apache Iceberg™ tables. Structured types aren’t supported for dynamic, hybrid, or external tables.

For more information, see [Structured data types](../../sql-reference/data-types-structured.md)

## Data pipeline updates

### Triggered tasks: Support for streams hosted on directory tables and data shares

With this release, you can now use Triggered Tasks to call stored procedures whenever there are changes in a stream hosted on a directory table or data share.

If the directory table is configured to auto-refresh, the triggered task runs automatically. Otherwise, in order to trigger the task, you must also refresh the directory table metadata manually, for example: ALTER STAGE my_stage REFRESH.

For more information, see [Triggered tasks](../../user-guide/tasks-triggered.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 27-May-25 |
| Trust Center: In-app notifications (Preview) | **Added** to New features section | 28-May-25 |
| Snowpark Python version updates | **Added** | 30-May-25 |
| Row-level deletes for externally managed Iceberg tables | **Removed** from Data lake updates section | 20-Aug-25 |
| Trust Center: New Abnormal Failure Rate Detection scanners | **Added** to New features section | 04-Sep-25 |
