# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_15.md

# 9.15 Release notes: Jun 09, 2025-Jun 11, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Artifact Repository (*General availability*)

With this release, we are pleased to announce general availability of support for Artifact Repository. Artifact Repository allows you to directly use Python packages from the Python Package Index ([PyPI](https://pypi.org)) within Snowpark Python user-defined functions (UDFs) and stored procedures.

For more information, see [Artifact Repository overview](../../developer-guide/udf/python/udf-python-packages.md).

## Security updates

### Malicious IP Protection

Malicious IP Protection service automatically protects all types of Snowflake accounts by blocking network access and login attempts that
originate from known, malicious IP addresses. It is enabled by default and does not require any configuration by administrators.

For more information, see [Malicious IP Protection](../../user-guide/malicious-ip-protection.md).

### Findings Lifecycle Management

Snowflake announces the Findings Lifecycle Management (FLM), a Trust Center feature that lets you manage, filter, and proactively respond to violations with auditable controls.

FLM lets you do the following tasks:

* Track and resolve security violations reported by scanners.
* Filter violations based on “Open” or “Resolved” status.
* Focus on active violations that require attention.
* Attach evidence or notes to violations for audit logs.

For more information, see [Manage the violation findings lifecycle](../../user-guide/trust-center/using-the-trust-center.md).

> **Note:**
>
> This feature is being rolled out gradually and will be available to all accounts within three weeks.

## SQL updates

### UNION BY NAME operator

This release introduces the UNION BY NAME operator. You can use this operator to combine rows by name instead of by position. When rows are
combined with UNION BY NAME, and a column exists in one input but not the other, it is filled with NULL values in the combined result set
for each row where it’s missing.

For more information, see [Set operators](../../sql-reference/operators-query.md).

## Data pipeline updates

### Support for streams on externally managed Apache Iceberg™ tables with row-level deletes

You can now create streams on externally managed Iceberg tables with row-level deletes.

For more information, see [Insert-only streams](../../user-guide/streams-intro.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 06-Jun-25 |
| Snowflake Scripting output (OUT) arguments (General availability) | **Removed** from SQL Updates section | 10-Jun-25 |
| Support for streams on externally managed Apache Iceberg™ tables with row-level deletes | **Added** to Data pipeline updates section | 11-Jun-25 |
| Artifact Repository (General availability) | **Added** to *New features* section | 12-Jun-25 |
| Findings Lifecycle Management (General availability) | **Added** to *Security updates* section | 20-Jun-25 |
