# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_17.md

# 9.17 Release notes (with behavior changes): Jun 24, 2025-Jun 30, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Behavior change bundles

This release contains the following behavior change bundles:

| Bundle Name | Status in this Release | Previous Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [2025_04](../bcr-bundles/2025_04_bundle.md) | Disabled by default; admins can enable for testing | N/A (introduced in this release) |
| [2025_03](../bcr-bundles/2025_03_bundle.md) | Enabled by default; admins can disable for opt-out | Disabled by default |
| [2025_02](../bcr-bundles/2025_02_bundle.md) | Generally enabled; admins can no longer enable/disable | Enabled by default |

The status for each bundle will change in the next behavior change release, planned for July 2025; however, this schedule is subject to
change.

For more information about bundle statuses and how they may impact your accounts, see [About Behavior Changes](../intro-bcr-releases.md).

## SQL updates

### New maximum size limits for database objects (*General availability*)

With this release, the new maximum allowed length for columns of type VARCHAR, VARIANT, ARRAY, and OBJECT is 128 MB, and the new maximum
allowed length for columns of type BINARY, GEOGRAPHY, and GEOMETRY is 64 MB.

To use this feature, the [2025_03 bundle](../bcr-bundles/2025_03_bundle.md) must be enabled. This bundle is enabled by default with this release.

For more information, see [Size limits for database objects](../../user-guide/data-load-considerations-prepare.md).

### Snowflake Scripting supports nested stored procedures (*General availability*)

With this release, you can define nested stored procedures in Snowflake Scripting anonymous blocks and stored procedures. A nested stored
procedure only exists in the scope of its block and can be called in from any section of its block (DECLARE, BEGIN … END, and EXCEPTION).

Nested stored procedures can enhance and simplify security, keep code more modular, and improve maintainability.

For more information, see [Using nested stored procedures](../../developer-guide/stored-procedure/stored-procedures-snowflake-scripting.md).

## Data pipeline updates

### Snowsight: Task Overview and Graph Run History updates (*General availability*)

With this release, you can see more in Snowsight task history:

* Account level overview of all task graphs based on task monitoring privileges
* See status and duration stats for recent runs
* Manually run, retry, edit or suspend tasks in one place
* Access task graph run details from the overview or the task-level

For more information, see [View tasks and task graphs in Snowsight](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-tasks.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 20-Jun-25 |
