# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_18.md

# 9.18 Release notes: Jul 02, 2025-Jul 08, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> Content in this page is available in advance of the completion of the 9.18 release, which is currently either pending or
> in progress.
>
> The release is scheduled to complete in early July (subject to change).
>
> Features, updates, or behavior changes described in this page might not become available in your account(s) until the completion of the
> release.
>
> For updates to these release notes, see Release notes change log.

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## SQL updates

### Snowflake Scripting output (OUT) arguments (*General availability*)

With this release, Snowflake Scripting supports output (OUT) arguments. When an output argument is specified in the definition of a Snowflake Scripting stored procedure, the stored procedure can return the current value of the output argument to a calling program, such as an anonymous block or a different stored procedure.

For more information, see [Using arguments passed to a stored procedure](../../developer-guide/stored-procedure/stored-procedures-snowflake-scripting.md).

## Data pipeline updates

### Dynamic tables: Support for externally managed Apache Iceberg™ tables (*General availability*)

You can now create dynamic tables that read from Iceberg tables that are managed by [external catalogs](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg.md). This is useful for processing data from external
data lakes, without duplicating or ingesting the data into Snowflake.

For more information, see [Create dynamic tables that read from Snowflake-managed or externally managed Apache Iceberg™ tables](../../user-guide/dynamic-tables-create.md)

## Data governance updates

### Data Quality: New system data metric function

A new system data metric function, ACCEPTED_VALUES, validates whether values in a column match a Boolean expression. When the ACCEPTED_VALUES function runs, it returns the number of records where the column value didn’t match the Boolean value, which can indicate a data quality issue.

For more information, see [ACCEPTED_VALUES](../../sql-reference/functions/dmf_accepted_values.md).
For general information about system data metric functions, see [Introduction to data quality and data metric functions](../../user-guide/data-quality-intro.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 30-Jun-25 |
| Dynamic tables: Support for externally managed Apache Iceberg™ tables | **Added** to Data pipeline updates section | 03-Jul-2025 |
