# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_27.md

# 9.27 Release Notes (with behavior changes): Sep 08, 2025-Sep 10, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> This release has completed. For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Behavior change bundles

This release contains the following behavior change bundles:

| Bundle Name | Status in this Release | Previous Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [2025_06](../bcr-bundles/2025_06_bundle.md) | Disabled by default; admins can enable for testing | N/A (introduced in this release) |
| [2025_05](../bcr-bundles/2025_05_bundle.md) | Enabled by default; admins can disable for opt-out | Disabled by default |
| [2025_04](../bcr-bundles/2025_04_bundle.md) | Generally enabled; admins can no longer enable/disable | Enabled by default |

The status for each bundle will change again in the following behavior change release, planned for October 13-15, 2025; however, this schedule is subject to change.

For more information about bundle statuses and how they may impact your accounts, see [About Behavior Changes](../intro-bcr-releases.md).

## SQL updates

### Retrieve bind variable values (*Preview*)

With this release, you can retrieve the values of the bind variables for queries that have been executed by using
the BIND_VALUES table function in the INFORMATION_SCHEMA schema. Using this function, you can retrieve bind variable
values from any code that supports bind variables, including Javascript and Snowflake Scripting code.

You can also access these bind variable values from the `bind_values` column in the output for the QUERY_HISTORY
Account Usage view, the QUERY_HISTORY Organization Usage view, or the QUERY_HISTORY function in the INFORMATION_SCHEMA.

> **Note:**
>
> To use this feature, the [2025_06 bundle](../bcr-bundles/2025_06_bundle.md) must be enabled.

For more information, see [Retrieve bind variable values](../../sql-reference/bind-variables.md).

## Data pipeline updates

### Dynamic tables: Support for base tables with zero data retention

You can now create dynamic tables on base tables with zero data retention (`DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS = 0`). This feature doesn’t
apply to shared base tables.

For more information, see [Data retention period](../../user-guide/data-time-travel.md).

## Data lake updates

### New system function to replace the catalog integration for an externally managed Apache Iceberg™ table

Use the new SYSTEM$SET_CATALOG_INTEGRATION system function to replace the catalog integration associated with an externally managed
Apache Iceberg™ table.

You might use this function to access the latest Iceberg features for your tables, such as
[write support for externally managed Iceberg tables](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg-externally-managed-writes.md). You might also use this function to roll back to
the original Glue catalog integration, if needed.

You can also use this function to migrate your tables to a different [Iceberg REST catalog integration](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg-configure-catalog-integration-rest.md).

For more information, see [SYSTEM$SET_CATALOG_INTEGRATION](../../sql-reference/functions/system_set_catalog_integration.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | Sep 05, 2025 |
| New system function for replacing the catalog integration associated with an externally managed Apache Iceberg™ table | **Added** to Data lake updates | Sep 19, 2025 |
| Dynamic tables: Support for base tables with zero data retention | **Added** to Data pipeline updates | Oct 21, 2025 |
