# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_36.md

# 9.36 Release Notes: Nov 10, 2025-Nov 16, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> This release has completed. For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## SQL updates

### Enhanced SQL functionality

This update enhances your ability to modify properties on both functions and stored procedures:

| Function category | Function | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Function | [CREATE OR ALTER FUNCTION](../../sql-reference/sql/create-function.md) | Updated to support changing function definition. For example, RUNTIME_VERSION, ARTIFACT_REPOSITORY (Python), PACKAGES, IMPORTS, return type, and function body. |
| Procedure | [CREATE OR ALTER PROCEDURE](../../sql-reference/sql/create-procedure.md) | Updated to support changing procedure definition. For example, RUNTIME_VERSION, IMPORTS, PACKAGES, return type, procedure body, and ARTIFACT_REPOSITORY for Python stored procedures. |

## Extensibility updates

### Support for OAuth when authenticating with GitHub (*General availability*)

You can authenticate using OAuth when you’re integrating a repository on [GitHub](https://github.com/about) with Snowflake.

For more information, see [Configure for authenticating with OAuth](../../developer-guide/git/git-setting-up.md).

### Run Apache Spark™ workloads on Snowflake (*General availability*)

You can connect your existing Spark workloads directly to Snowflake and run them on the Snowflake compute engine. As a result, you can run your PySpark dataframe code with all the benefits of the Snowflake engine.

For more information, see [Apache Spark™ workloads on Snowflake with Snowpark Connect](../../developer-guide/snowpark-connect/snowpark-connect-overview.md).

### Support for connecting Scala applications to Snowpark Connect for Spark (*Preview*)

You can now connect your Scala applications to the Snowpark Connect for Spark server. After you configure a connection to authenticate with Snowflake and start the Snowpark Connect for Spark server, you can run Scala code to connect to Snowpark Connect for Spark.

For more information, see [Getting Started with Snowpark Connect for Scala Applications](../../developer-guide/snowpark-connect/snowpark-connect-workloads-jupyter.md).

## Data governance updates

### Anomaly detection for Data Quality Monitoring (*Preview*)

Set up anomaly detection for data quality monitoring so that Snowflake automatically detects unexpected changes in the following dimensions:

* Volume of data in a table.
* Frequency with which a table is being updated.

For more information, see [Detecting anomalies in data quality](../../user-guide/data-quality-anomaly.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | Nov 07, 2025 |
