# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_39.md

# 9.39 Release Notes: Dec 08, 2025-Dec 12, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> This release has completed. For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Security updates

### Trust Center: Detection findings and event-driven scanners (*Preview*)

You can now use Trust Center to view a new type of findings — detections that scanners find in your account. This preview also adds a new
type of scanners — event driven, which constantly monitor your account for specific events, to the existing type of schedule-based
scanners.

For more information, see [Detections](../../user-guide/trust-center/overview.md) and [Event-driven scanners](../../user-guide/trust-center/overview.md).

### Programmatic access tokens: Removing the single-role restriction for service users

For service users (users with TYPE=SERVICE or TYPE=LEGACY_SERVICE), you can now generate a
[programmatic access token](../../user-guide/programmatic-access-tokens.md) that is not restricted to a single role.

To bypass this restriction, create or alter an authentication policy that sets the REQUIRE_ROLE_RESTRICTION_FOR_SERVICE_USERS
property to FALSE in the PAT_POLICY clause. For example:

```sqlexample
CREATE AUTHENTICATION POLICY my_authentication_policy
  PAT_POLICY = (
    REQUIRE_ROLE_RESTRICTION_FOR_SERVICE_USERS = FALSE
  );
```

```sqlexample
ALTER AUTHENTICATION POLICY my_authentication_policy
  SET PAT_POLICY = (
    REQUIRE_ROLE_RESTRICTION_FOR_SERVICE_USERS = FALSE
  );
```

After creating or altering the authentication policy, apply the policy to a service user.

> **Note:**
>
> The restriction is lifted only when you use the [ALTER USER … ADD PROGRAMMATIC ACCESS TOKEN (PAT)](../../sql-reference/sql/alter-user-add-programmatic-access-token.md) command to
> generate the programmatic access token.
>
> Currently, the restriction is not lifted if you are using Snowsight to generate the programmatic access token, but
> support will be added in the future.

For information, see [Removing the role restriction for service users](../../user-guide/programmatic-access-tokens.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | Dec 05, 2025 |
| Programmatic access tokens: Removing the single-role restriction for service users | **Added** to Security updates | Dec 10, 2025 |
