# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/stored-procedures/ai_generate_table_desc.md

# AI_GENERATE_TABLE_DESC

Generates and returns a description for a table or view. Optionally, the stored procedure can also generate descriptions for the columns of
the table or view.

The stored procedure uses the [Snowflake Cortex COMPLETE function](../functions/complete-snowflake-cortex.md) to
automatically generate descriptions.

## Syntax

```sqlsyntax
AI_GENERATE_TABLE_DESC(
  <table_name>
  [ , <config_object> ] )
```

## Required arguments

`table_name`
:   Specifies the table or view that you want to generate a description for.

## Optional arguments

`config_object`
:   An [OBJECT](../data-types-semistructured.md) that specifies whether you want to generate column descriptions and use sample data for those
    descriptions. You can use an [OBJECT constant](../data-types-semistructured.md) to specify this object.

    The OBJECT value has the following structure:

    ```sqlexample
    {
      'describe_columns': <boolean>,
      'use_table_data': <boolean>
    {
    ```

    `describe_columns`
    :   If set to TRUE, the stored procedure generates descriptions for all columns of the table.

    `use_table_data`
    :   If set to TRUE, the stored procedure uses sample data from the table to generate column descriptions, which can improve the accuracy of
        the descriptions. If FALSE, the stored procedure relies on metadata to generate the descriptions.

## Returns

Returns a JSON string with the following fields:

`COLUMNS`
:   Contains an array of columns for which descriptions were generated. This field is only returned if descriptions were generated for columns.

    The array contains the following fields for each column of the table:

    `database_name`
    :   Database that contains the column.

    `description`
    :   Description of the column that was generated by the stored procedure.

    `name`
    :   Name of the column.

    `schema_name`
    :   Schema that contains the column.

    `table_name`
    :   Table or view that contains the column.

`TABLE`
:   Contains an array that includes the description of the table along with general information about the table. The array consists of the
    following fields:

    `database_name`
    :   Database that contains the table.

    `description`
    :   Description of the table that was generated by the stored procedure.

    `name`
    :   Name of the table or view.

    `schema_name`
    :   Schema that contains the table.

## Access control requirements

Users must have the following privileges and roles to call the AI_GENERATE_TABLE_DESCRIPTION stored procedure:

* SELECT privilege on the table or view.
* SNOWFLAKE.CORTEX_USER database role.

## Usage notes

* Your region must support the LLM used by Snowflake Cortex to generate the descriptions. Check the
  [availability of the COMPLETE function](../../user-guide/snowflake-cortex/aisql.md). If the COMPLETE function is not supported in your region,
  you must enable [cross-region inference](../../user-guide/snowflake-cortex/cross-region-inference.md) to use the feature.

## Examples

Generate a description for view `v1`.

```sqlexample
CALL AI_GENERATE_TABLE_DESC( 'v1');
```

```output
{
  "TABLE": [
    {
      "database_name": "mydb",
      "description": " The table contains records of customer addresses. Each record includes a name and zip code.",
      "name": "v1",
      "schema_name": "sch1"
    }
  ]
}
```

Generate descriptions for the table `hr_data` and all of its columns. Use metadata only to generate the descriptions.

```sqlexample
CALL AI_GENERATE_TABLE_DESC(
  'mydb.sch1.hr_data',
  {
    'describe_columns': true,
    'use_table_data': false
  });
```

```output
{
  "COLUMNS": [
    {
      "database_name": "mydb",
      "description": "A column holding data of type DecimalType representing age values.",
      "name": "AGE",
      "schema_name": "sch1",
      "table_name": "hr_data"
    },
    {
      "database_name": "mydb",
      "description": "The first name of the employee.",
      "name": "FNAME",
      "schema_name": "sch1",
      "table_name": "hr_data"
    }
  ],
  "TABLE": [
    {
      "database_name": "mydb",
      "description": " The table contains records of employee data, specifically demographic information. Each record includes an employee's age and name.",
      "name": "hr_data",
      "schema_name": "sch1"
    }
  ]
}
```
