# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_02/bcr-1535.md

# SQL functions: Passing in columns that have the `upper`, `lower`, or `trim` collation specifier

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_02 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_02_bundle.md).

The `upper` and `lower` [collation specifiers](../../../sql-reference/collation.md) convert strings to upper or lower case
(respectively) before strings are compared. The `trim` collation specifier removes leading and trailing spaces before strings
are compared.

In cases when you pass in columns with these specifiers to some of the SQL functions, the behavior changes in the following ways:

Before the change:
:   The [LIKE](../../../sql-reference/functions/like.md) function ignores the `upper`, `lower`, and `trim` specifiers, which
    results in a case-sensitive comparison.

    In addition, the following functions do not support columns with the `upper`, `lower`, and `trim` specifiers:

    * Variants of the LIKE function:

      + [LIKE ALL](../../../sql-reference/functions/like_all.md)
      + [LIKE ANY](../../../sql-reference/functions/like_any.md)
      + [ILIKE ANY](../../../sql-reference/functions/ilike_any.md)
    * [CONTAINS](../../../sql-reference/functions/contains.md)
    * [ENDSWITH](../../../sql-reference/functions/endswith.md)
    * [POSITION](../../../sql-reference/functions/position.md)
    * [REPLACE](../../../sql-reference/functions/replace.md)
    * [SPLIT](../../../sql-reference/functions/split.md)
    * [SPLIT_PART](../../../sql-reference/functions/split_part.md)
    * [STARTSWITH](../../../sql-reference/functions/startswith.md)

    If you pass a column with the `upper`, `lower`, or `trim` specifier to these functions, a compilation error occurs.

After the change:
:   The LIKE function respects the `upper`, `lower`, and `trim` specifiers, which results in a case-insensitive comparison.

    As a result, queries that use the LIKE function might return additional rows (see the example below).

    Note that the LIKE function does not support combinations with locale specifiers (for example, `en-upper`).

    In addition, the following functions now support columns with the `upper`, `lower`, and `trim` specifiers.

    * Variants of the LIKE function:

      + LIKE ALL
      + LIKE ANY
      + ILIKE ANY
    * CONTAINS
    * ENDSWITH
    * POSITION
    * REPLACE
    * SPLIT
    * SPLIT_PART
    * STARTSWITH

## Example of the effects of the change on the LIKE function

As noted above, if a column has the `upper`, `lower`, or `trim` specifier, queries with the LIKE function might return
additional rows. For example, suppose that a table has a column with the `lower` specifier. Suppose that the text in the table
differs in case.

```sqlexample
CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE collated_like (
  col_a VARCHAR,
  col_b VARCHAR COLLATE 'lower'
);

INSERT INTO collated_like VALUES ('abc', 'abc'), ('ABC','ABC');
```

Before the behavior change, each of the following queries that use the LIKE function return one row with the value `'abc'`:

```sqlexample
SELECT * FROM collated_like WHERE col_a LIKE '%b%';

SELECT * FROM collated_like WHERE col_a COLLATE 'lower' LIKE '%b%';

SELECT * FROM collated_like WHERE col_b LIKE '%b%';
```

```output
+-------+-------+
| COL_A | COL_B |
|-------+-------|
| abc   | abc   |
+-------+-------+
```

After the behavior change, the query that does not use the `lower` specification column with the LIKE function still returns one
row:

```sqlexample
SELECT * FROM collated_like WHERE col_a LIKE '%b%';
```

```output
+-------+-------+
| COL_A | COL_B |
|-------+-------|
| abc   | abc   |
+-------+-------+
```

However, the queries that use the [COLLATE](../../../sql-reference/functions/collate.md) function to specify `lower` and queries that pass a
column with the `lower` specification to the LIKE function return two rows:

```sqlexample
SELECT * FROM collated_like WHERE col_a COLLATE 'lower' LIKE '%b%';

SELECT * FROM collated_like WHERE col_b LIKE '%b%';
```

```output
+-------+-------+
| COL_A | COL_B |
|-------+-------|
| abc   | abc   |
| ABC   | ABC   |
+-------+-------+
```

This is roughly equivalent to [ILIKE](../../../sql-reference/functions/ilike.md). To determine if you should expect changes to these
queries, you can replace LIKE with ILIKE in these queries.

## Preserving the behavior before the change

If your columns use the `upper`, `lower`, or `trim` specification and you want to preserve the behavior before the change,
you can use the [COLLATE](../../../sql-reference/functions/collate.md) function with an empty specification to indicate that the `upper`,
`lower`, or `trim` specification associated with the column should not be used:

```sqlexample
SELECT * FROM collated_like WHERE col_b COLLATE '' LIKE '%b%';
```

> **Note:**
>
> If you are using this approach with the LIKE function, make sure that both the subject and pattern do not have a collation
> specification applied.

Ref: 1535
