# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2025_01/bcr-1854.md

# CLONE and CREATE … LIKE commands: Cloning and propagating DMF entity mappings

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2025_01 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2025_01_bundle.md).

DMF entity mappings are an association between a data metric function and a table column.
When this behavior change bundle is enabled, the behavior of the CLONE and CREATE … LIKE commands changes as follows:

Before the change:
:   When users clone a table, db, or schema, the new table has no data metric function associations. Users cannot clone the
    DMF entity mappings when executing the CLONE command to clone a database, schema, or table.
    When users create a table using the LIKE command and the source table has data metric associations, the new table has no
    DMF associations. Users cannot propagate the DMF entity mappings to the newly created table by executing the
    CREATE TABLE … LIKE command.

After the change:
:   When users clone a table, the new table will have DMF associations. Users can clone the DMF entity mappings from the
    source to the target object by executing the CLONE command.
    When users create a table using the LIKE command and the source table has data metric associations, the new table will
    have DMF associations. Users can materialize the DMF entity mappings from the original table to the new table by
    executing the CREATE … LIKE command.

Ref: 1854
