# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_01/bcr-1483.md

# Sequences and columns: New sequences and columns use NOORDER by default

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_01 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_01_bundle.md).

When you [create a new sequence](../../../sql-reference/sql/create-sequence.md) or a new auto-incremented column, you can specify the
ORDER or NOORDER parameter to indicate whether or not the sequence can generate new values in increasing order.

* ORDER specifies that the values generated for a sequence or auto-incremented column are in increasing order (or, if the interval
  is a negative value, in decreasing order).

  For example, if a sequence or auto-incremented column has `START 1 INCREMENT 2`, the generated values might be
  `1`, `3`, `5`, `7`, `9`, etc.
* NOORDER specifies that the values are not guaranteed to be in increasing order.

  For example, if a sequence has `START 1 INCREMENT 2`, the generated values might be `1`, `3`, `101`, `5`, `103`, etc.

  NOORDER can improve performance when multiple INSERT operations are performed concurrently (for example, when multiple
  clients are executing multiple INSERT statements).

If you do not specify ORDER or NOORDER, a default value is used. This default value is changing in order to improve performance:

Before the change:
:   *If you create a new sequence without specifying ORDER or NOORDER, ORDER is used by default.
    * If you create a new table column and specify AUTOINCREMENT without specifying ORDER or NOORDER, ORDER is used by default.

After the change:
:   *If you create a new sequence without specifying ORDER or NOORDER, NOORDER is used by default.
    * If you create a new table column and specify AUTOINCREMENT without specifying ORDER or NOORDER, NOORDER is used by default.

Note the following:

* The changes to these default values do not affect existing sequences and existing auto-incremented columns.

  The changes only affect new sequences and columns that are created when the behavior change is enabled.
* The ORDER and NOORDER properties have no effect on the uniqueness of the generated values for sequences and auto-incremented
  columns.

## Changing the default from NOORDER to ORDER

To set the default back to ORDER, set the [NOORDER_SEQUENCE_AS_DEFAULT](../../../sql-reference/parameters.md) parameter to FALSE for the account, user, or
session.

If you set this parameter, the value that you set overrides the value in the 2024_01 behavior change bundle. Setting this
parameter to FALSE keeps the ORDER as the default, even after the 2024_01 behavior change bundle is
[generally enabled](../../behavior-change-policy.md).

## Changes to the output of the GET_DDL function

In addition, the output of the [GET_DDL](../../../sql-reference/functions/get_ddl.md) function is changing for auto-incremented columns that
have START 1 INCREMENT 1 set:

Before the change:
:   The column definition returned by GET_DDL only includes the AUTOINCREMENT keyword (for example,
    `column name data type AUTOINCREMENT`).

After the change:
:   The column definition returned by GET_DDL includes all properties, including the START property, the INCREMENT property and the
    ORDER / NOORDER property (for example, `column name data type AUTOINCREMENT START 1 INCREMENT 1 NOORDER`).

## Determining if a sequence or column has the ORDER or NOORDER property

Finally, to determine if a sequence has the ORDER or NOORDER property, you can use the following commands and views:

* For sequences, you can use any of the following:

  * The [SHOW SEQUENCES](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-sequences.md) command.
  * The [DESCRIBE SEQUENCE](../../../sql-reference/sql/desc-sequence.md) command.
  * The [SEQUENCES view in INFORMATION_SCHEMA](../../../sql-reference/info-schema/sequences.md).
* For auto-incremented columns, you can check either of the following:

  * The `autoincrement` column in the output of the [SHOW COLUMNS](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-columns.md) command.
  * The `identity_ordered` column in the [COLUMNS view in INFORMATION_SCHEMA](../../../sql-reference/info-schema/columns.md).
* For sequences and auto-incremented columns, you can check for the ORDER or NOORDER property in the sequence or column
  definition returned by the [GET_DDL](../../../sql-reference/functions/get_ddl.md) function.

Ref: 1483
