# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/un-bundled/bcr-1904.md

# Document AI: CREATE MODEL privilege required to create, publish, and train model builds

As part of Snowflake’s continued commitment to enable object sharing across Snowflake, Document AI now
stores any published or trained models within the model registry to enable replicating or cloning the
models between schemas, databases, and accounts. This change requires you to grant the CREATE MODEL privilege
on the schema to the account role to continue using the [<model_build_name>!PREDICT](../../../sql-reference/classes/document-intelligence/methods/predict.md)
method.

> **Note:**
>
> You can’t replicate a *model build* (which includes the model, the data values to be extracted,
> and the documents uploaded to test and train the model). This change only affects the *model*
> that was either published or trained out of a model build.

## Behavior change

Before the change:
:   To create, publish, and train a Document AI model build, you must use a role that has the following privileges:

    ```sqlexample
    GRANT CREATE SNOWFLAKE.ML.DOCUMENT_INTELLIGENCE ON SCHEMA doc_ai_db.doc_ai_schema TO ROLE doc_ai_role;
    ```

After the change:
:   To create, publish, and train a Document AI model build, you must use a role that has the following privileges:

    ```sqlexample
    GRANT CREATE SNOWFLAKE.ML.DOCUMENT_INTELLIGENCE ON SCHEMA doc_ai_db.doc_ai_schema TO ROLE doc_ai_role;
    GRANT CREATE MODEL ON SCHEMA doc_ai_db.doc_ai_schema TO ROLE doc_ai_role;
    ```

## Actions required

1. To continue working with the existing Document AI models, grant the additional privilege to the account role, as shown in the following example:

   ```sqlexample
   GRANT CREATE MODEL ON SCHEMA doc_ai_db.doc_ai_schema TO ROLE doc_ai_role;
   ```

> To create a new Document AI model build, you must use a role that has the required privileges. For more information,
> see [Setting up Document AI](../../../user-guide/snowflake-cortex/document-ai/setting-up.md).

## Additional notes

* New Document AI models are automatically integrated into the model registry.
* Existing Document AI models must be manually integrated into the model registry. See Actions required.
* Only published or trained models can be integrated into the model registry.
* You can’t integrate a model into the model registry during training. Wait until the training is completed.
* You must grant the CREATE MODEL privilege on both the schema that stores the source model and the schema to which you replicate a model.
* There are no changes to the [<model_build_name>!PREDICT](../../../sql-reference/classes/document-intelligence/methods/predict.md) method itself.

## Change log

| Section | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | Initial publication | 04-Mar-25 |
| *Actions required* Additional notes | Added information about integrating the existing Document AI models into the model registry. | 09-Jul-25 |

Ref: 1904
