# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2026_02/bcr-2191.md

# Authentication policies: Changes to the NETWORK_POLICY_EVALUATION property no longer affect existing sessions (Pending)

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2026_02 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle history](../2026_02_bundle.md).

In an [authentication policy](../../../user-guide/authentication-policies.md), the NETWORK_POLICY_EVALUATION property determines how
network policies are evaluated when a [programmatic access token](../../../user-guide/programmatic-access-tokens.md) is used for
authentication. For more information, see [Network policy requirements](../../../user-guide/programmatic-access-tokens.md).

The way in which this property is read is changing:

Before the change:
:   The value of the NETWORK_POLICY_EVALUATION property is read when the session is first created and with each action performed.

    If you change the value of the NETWORK_POLICY_EVALUATION property, this change affects existing sessions.

After the change:
:   The value of the NETWORK_POLICY_EVALUATION property is read only when the session is first created.

    This value is kept in memory and is used for the entire session.

    If you change the value of the NETWORK_POLICY_EVALUATION property, this change does not affect existing sessions.

    The change only affects new sessions created after the behavior change bundle was enabled.

This change is being made for consistency. Other properties of an authentication policy are checked when a session is created,
not with each action performed.

Ref: 2191
