# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_03/bcr-1017.md

# Stored Procedures and UDTFs: Argument Names Respected in Calls

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_03 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_03_bundle.md).

Calls to stored procedures and user-defined table functions (UDTFs), where the call includes named arguments,
Snowflake will give precedence to argument names over argument position as follows.

Previously:
:   When calling procedures or user-defined table functions (UDTFs) that have named arguments, Snowflake ignores argument names and uses argument position to determine which value is passed to the procedure or function.

Currently:
:   Argument names will take precedence over argument position in calls to procedures and UDTFs. This may result in the following behavior that differs from before the behavior change:

    * A previously-working call to a stored procedure or user-defined table function could result in an error.
    * Argument names could cause arguments to be passed in a different order than previously. This could result in an error, wrong results, or wrong data insertion.
    * Argument names could cause a different stored procedure with the same name to be called. This could result in an error, wrong results, or wrong data insertion.
    * The following example illustrates how calls to two stored procedures might differ before and after the change.

    The following example illustrates how calls to two stored procedures might differ before and after the change.

    ```sqlexample
    -- One stored procedure
    CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE proc(STRARG1 varchar, STRARG2 varchar)
    RETURNS VARCHAR
    LANGUAGE SQL
    AS
    $$
    BEGIN
      return 'hello';
    END
    $$;
    -- Another procedure
    CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE proc(ARG1 number, ARG2 number)
    RETURNS BOOLEAN
    LANGUAGE SQL
    AS
    $$
    BEGIN
      return ARG1 < ARG2;
    END
    $$;
    -- Example A
    -- Before: returns 'hello'
    -- After: returns TRUE
    CALL PROC(ARG1 => '5', ARG2 => '100');
    -- Example B
    -- Before: returns TRUE
    -- After: returns 'hello'
    CALL PROC(STRARG1 => 5, STRARG2 => 100); -- 'hello'.
    ```

Ref: 1017
