# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_04/bcr-1592.md

# Event tracing: Trace IDs propagated from parent to child through procedure calls

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_04 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_04_bundle.md).

Before the change:
:   The `trace_id` of each of the spans created by chained Java and Scala stored procedures or UDFs is unique.

    The `parent_span_id` field does not exist in the RECORD column of the event table.

    Native apps providers and consumers see different `trace_id` values for shared events. The provider sees the hashed version.

After the change:
:   Spans generated by chained Java and Scala stored procedures or UDFs have the same `trace_id`. The RECORD column has a
    `parent_span_id` attribute.

    Spans generated by chained Java and Scala stored procedures or UDFs have a parent-child relationship between `parent_span_id` and
    `span_id`. Java and Scala stored procedures can call other stored procedures in a chain of any length. (UDFs can’t execute
    SQL statements, so calling a UDF ends the chain. However, the trace info is still propagated to the UDF’s spans.)

    If the Java or Scala stored procedure or UDF was called by the user directly (the root), then the `trace_id` will be a random ID
    and there will be no `parent_span_id`. If tracing is disabled for a stored procedure and it calls another stored procedure or UDF,
    then the `trace_id` of the child’s spans will be random and they will have no `parent_span_id`. In other words, the trace is
    restarted at the child.

    Native apps providers and consumers see the same `trace_id` for shared Java or Scala stored procedure or UDF events, so they can be
    debugged more easily.

Ref: 1592
