# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_08/bcr-1218.md

# Native Apps: Queries that use a reference removed from an app’s manifest file fail

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_08 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_08_bundle.md).

A Snowflake Native App may request a [reference](../../../sql-reference/references.md) to authorize access on an object in a consumer account.
These references are defined by the app provider in the [manifest file](../../../developer-guide/native-apps/manifest-overview.md) of an
application version. If a new version of the app removes a previously included reference definition from the manifest file, the original
reference no longer exists in the current version.

For example, in version `V1` of app `my_app`, the app provider defines a reference REF_TO_TABLE. The app contains a stored
procedure CREATE_VIEW_FROM_TABLE that uses the table reference REF_TO_TABLE to create a view VIEW_SELECT_FROM_DEFINED_REF.

A consumer can install `my_app`,
[associate a reference](https://other-docs.snowflake.com/en/native-apps/consumer-granting-privs#associating-the-reference-to-the-application)
to a table in their account to `my_app`, call the app’s CREATE_VIEW_FROM_TABLE procedure, then select from the view
VIEW_SELECT_FROM_DEFINED_REF.

In version `V2` of app `my_app`, the app provider removes the reference definition for REF_TO_TABLE. When the consumer
upgrades their installed app `my_app` to `V2`, calling the CREATE_VIEW_FROM_TABLE procedure should fail because the procedure
uses a reference that is no longer defined in the manifest file for version `V2`.

Queries in a Snowflake Native App that use a reference that has been removed from the manifest file behave as follows:

Before the change:
:   Queries that use a reference that is no longer defined in the manifest file for the current version of the app *succeed*.

After the change:
:   Queries that use a reference that is no longer defined in the manifest file for the current version of the app *fail* with the
    following error:

    ```output
    Reference definition '<REF_DEF_NAME>' cannot be found in the current version of the application '<APP_NAME>'
    ```

Ref: 1218
