# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_04/bcr-928.md

# TABLES and SCHEMATA Views (Account Usage): Changes to RETENTION_TIME Column

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_04 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_04_bundle.md).

The data retention period for an object is determined by the retention time parameter settings set on the object and account. These parameters
are DATA_RETENTION_TIME _IN_DAYS and MIN_DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS.

* If the retention time is not explicitly set for an object, it inherits the setting from its parent object.
* If there is no retention time set at the account level, the default retention time for the object is 1 day.
* The maximum retention time for a transient object is 1 day, regardless of the account-level setting.
* If there is a minimum retention time set for the account, and a retention time explicitly set on an object, the effective retention time is the
  greater of the two: MAX(DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS, MIN_DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS).

The RETENTION_TIME column in the Account Usage views listed below might display the incorrect value in the following scenarios:

* If there is no explicit retention time set for a transient table or schema, and the retention time for the account is set to 7 days, the
  RETENTION_TIME column value is 7 days. This is incorrect. The maximum data retention time for a transient object is 1 day.
* If the minimum retention time for an account is 7 days, and the retention time setting for a table or schema is 4 days, the RETENTION_TIME column
  value is 4 days. This is incorrect. The minimum account retention time is longer and therefore overrides the retention time explicitly set for the
  table or schema.
* If the retention time is set to 10 days for a table or schema, then unset, the RETENTION_TIME column value is the unset value (in this case 10).
  This might be incorrect.

In the current release, the RETENTION_TIME column value changed as follows for the ACCOUNT_USAGE views listed below:

* TABLES View
* SCHEMATA View

Previously:
:   In some cases, the RETENTION_TIME column displays an incorrect data retention time for the object.

Currently:
:   The RETENTION_TIME column will display the correct data retention time for tables and schemas.

For more information about setting the data retention period, refer to
[Specifying the Data Retention Period for an Object](../../../user-guide/data-time-travel.md).

Ref: 928
