# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_04/bcr-1614.md

# Dynamic tables: Updates to dynamic table default refresh mode

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_04 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_04_bundle.md).

A dynamic table’s actual [refresh mode](../../../user-guide/dynamic-tables-refresh.md) is
determined at creation time and is immutable afterward. If not specified explicitly, the
refresh mode defaults to `AUTO`. When the 2024_04 behavior change bundle is enabled,
Snowflake chooses the refresh mode that’s likely to perform best depending on your query
definition.

To determine the best mode for your use case, experiment with refresh modes and automatic
recommendations. For consistent behavior across Snowflake releases, Snowflake recommends that
you explicitly set the refresh mode on all production dynamic tables.

For more information, see [best practices](../../../user-guide/dynamic-tables-performance.md) and
[limitations around using incremental refresh](../../../user-guide/dynamic-tables-limitations.md).

Before the change:
:   Snowflake chooses an incremental refresh of the dynamic table by default. If the dynamic
    table’s definition doesn’t support the incremental refresh mode, the dynamic table is
    automatically created with the full refresh mode.

After the change:
:   Snowflake chooses the refresh mode that is likely to perform best depending on your query
    definition.

    For consistent behavior across Snowflake releases, you should explicitly set the refresh mode
    on all production dynamic tables.

Ref: 1614
