# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_02/bcr-1521.md

# SHOW APPLICATIONS command: New `UPGRADE_STATUS` column

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_02 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_02_bundle.md).

During installation and upgrade of a Snowflake Native App, a consumer may need to monitor the current status of
the installation or upgrade.

Before the change:
:   The [SHOW APPLICATIONS](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-applications.md) command did not include the `upgrade_status` column.

After the change:
:   The [SHOW APPLICATIONS](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-applications.md) command includes the `upgrade_status` column, which is defined as follows:

    | Column name | Data type | Description |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    | UPGRADE_STATUS | String | Lists the current status of the installation or upgrade. |

Possible values for this column are:

* `INSTALLING`: The application object is in the process of being created.
* `INSTALL_FAILED`: The creation of the application object failed. The application object
  remains in the `INSTALL_FAILED` state until it is dropped. See the `UPGRADE_FAILURE_REASON`
  column of the [DESCRIBE APPLICATION](../../../sql-reference/sql/desc-application.md) command for information about why the
  installation or upgrade failed.
* `COMPLETE`: The setup script successfully completed and the application object was created
  or upgraded.
* `QUEUED`: The application object is queued for upgrade.
* `UPGRADING`: The application object is in the process of being upgraded.
* `FAILED`: All upgrade attempts failed. The reason for the failure is listed in the
  `UPGRADE_FAILURE_REASON` column, if present. The instance remains in the `FAILED` state until
  a release directive is updated to point to a different version than the one that the upgrade was
  targeting, as defined in the `TARGET_UPGRADE_VERSION` column.
* `QUEUED_DELAYED`: The application object is queued for an upgrade that is scheduled for a future time.
* `QUEUED_RETRY`: The instance failed one or more upgrade attempts. The reason for the failure
  is indicated in `UPGRADE_FAILURE_REASON`: The instance is queued to perform another upgrade attempt.
* `DISABLED`: The application object and its upgrades were disabled. In this state the instance will be
  inaccessible for consumers, it will not be considered for upgrades and will not block application package
  version drop. The reason for the failure is listed in the `UPGRADE_FAILURE_REASON` column, if present.

Ref: 1521
