# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/un-bundled/bcr-2113.md

# Warehouses: Enable QAS by default for newly created Gen2 and multi-cluster warehouses (Postponed)

> **Note:**
>
> This behavior change was part of the 2025_07 bundle, but the change has been postponed. The change will be introduced in a future bundle.
> The change is not available for testing.

This behavior change applies to the
[Query Acceleration Service (QAS)](../../../user-guide/query-acceleration-service.md)
feature in combination with Gen1, [Gen2](../../../user-guide/warehouses-gen2.md), and
[multi-cluster](../../../user-guide/warehouses-multicluster.md) warehouses.

Warehouse creation for standard warehouses behaves as follows:

Before the change:
:   QAS is disabled by default when creating new Gen1, Gen2, and multi-cluster warehouses.
    When QAS is enabled, the default maximum scaling factor is 8.

After the change:
:   QAS is enabled by default when creating new Gen2 warehouses and multi-cluster warehouses (including Gen1).
    It remains disabled by default for single-cluster Gen1 warehouses.
    The default maximum scaling factor is 2 when Snowflake automatically enables QAS for Gen2
    and multi-cluster warehouses. The default is still 8 for Gen1 warehouses, or when you explicitly
    enable QAS in the CREATE WAREHOUSE statement.

Altering an existing warehouse does **not** enable QAS by default or turn it off if it’s already
enabled. For example, the following operations don’t enable QAS:

* Altering a single-cluster warehouse to multi-cluster does **not** enable QAS.
* Altering the minimum or maximum cluster count does **not** enable QAS.
* Altering the multi-cluster warehouse scaling policy from economy to standard (or vice versa) does **not** enable QAS.
* Altering a Gen1 warehouse to Gen2 does **not** enable QAS.

And the following operations don’t turn QAS off if it’s already enabled:

* If you alter a multi-cluster warehouse with QAS enabled and change it back to single-cluster,
  QAS remains enabled.
* If you alter a Gen2 warehouse with QAS enabled and change it back to Gen1, QAS remains enabled.

This change is being made to enable more optimization opportunities and improve query performance
for standard warehouses that are typically used for high-volume and performance-critical workloads.

Ref: 2113
