# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_05/bcr-1193.md

# Managed Account Commands: Changes to Output

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_05 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_05_bundle.md).

In the current release, the output of the SHOW MANAGED ACCOUNTS and CREATE MANAGED ACCOUNT commands display [account URLs](../../../user-guide/organizations-connect.md) and account names consistently across all Snowflake accounts.

Previously:
:   The output of the SHOW MANAGED ACCOUNTS and CREATE MANAGED ACCOUNT commands varied slightly depending on the Snowflake account. In some
    accounts:

    * The output still displayed the legacy account locator URL in the `url` column.
    * SHOW MANAGED ACCOUNTS output did not always include the `account_locator_url` column.
    * CREATE MANAGED ACCOUNT output did not always include the `accountLocatorUrl` column.
    * CREATE MANAGED ACCOUNT output sometimes displayed the account locator as the name of the account.

Currently:
:   The output of the SHOW MANAGED ACCOUNTS and CREATE MANAGED ACCOUNT commands is consistent among all accounts:

    * The output always includes the account name format of the account URL in the `url`
      column. The [account identifier](../../../user-guide/admin-account-identifier.md) in this format follows the pattern `orgname-account_name`.
    * SHOW MANAGED ACCOUNTS output displays the account locator format of the account URL in the `account_locator_url` column.
    * CREATE MANAGED ACCOUNT output displays the account locator format of the account URL in the `accountLocatorUrl` column.
    * CREATE MANAGED ACCOUNT output shows the account name in the `accountName` column and includes an `accountLocator`
      column that displays the account locator.

Ref: 1193
