# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_04/bcr-1607.md

# Replication support for CREATE <class_name> privilege

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_04 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_04_bundle.md).

The CREATE <class_name> privilege is granted on a schema to a role. A role granted this privilege can be used to create an
instance of class <class_name>.

For example, the following statement grants the role `budget_creator` the privilege to create instances of the
[SNOWFLAKE.CORE.BUDGET](../../../sql-reference/classes/budget.md) class in schema `budgets_db.budgets_schema`:

```sqlexample
GRANT CREATE SNOWFLAKE.CORE.BUDGET
  ON SCHEMA budgets_db.budgets_schema
  TO ROLE budget_creator;
```

> **Note:**
>
> Privileges granted to roles are replicated to target accounts only if the ROLES object type is included in the OBJECT_TYPES list for a
> replication or failover group. The object the privilege is granted must also be replicated.

The replication of the CREATE <class_name> privilege behaves as follows:

Before the change:
:   If a role is granted the CREATE <class_name> privilege on a schema in a source account, this privilege grant is *not* replicated to
    target accounts.

    For example, the CREATE [SNOWFLAKE.ML.FORECAST](../../../sql-reference/classes/forecast.md) privilege is granted using the
    following statement in a source account:

    ```sqlexample
    GRANT CREATE SNOWFLAKE.ML.FORECAST
      ON SCHEMA admin_db.admin_schema
      TO ROLE analyst;
    ```

    If the database `admin_db` and roles are replicated to a target account, the CREATE SNOWFLAKE.ML.FORECAST privilege grant is
    not replicated. The role `analyst` can’t create instances of the SNOWFLAKE.ML.FORECAST class in the target account.

After the change:
:   If a role is granted the CREATE <class_name> privilege on a schema in a source account, the privilege grant is replicated to the
    target account if the following objects are included in the replication or failover group:

    * The database that contains the schema on which the privilege is granted.
    * The ROLES object type is included in the OBJECT_TYPES list.

    A user granted the role with the CREATE <class_name> privilege in a target account can create an instance of <class_name> in the
    replicated schema in the target account.

    For example, the CREATE SNOWFLAKE.ML.FORECAST privilege is granted using the following statement in a source account:

    ```sqlexample
    GRANT CREATE SNOWFLAKE.ML.FORECAST
      ON SCHEMA admin_db.admin_schema
      TO ROLE analyst;
    ```

    If the database `admin_db` and roles are replicated to a target account, the CREATE SNOWFLAKE.ML.FORECAST privilege grant is
    replicated. The role `analyst` can create instances of the SNOWFLAKE.ML.FORECAST class in the target account.

For a list of available Snowflake classes, see [SQL class reference](../../../sql-reference-classes.md).

Ref: 1607
