# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_01/bcr-1401.md

# Versioned schemas: Disallow tag propagation

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_01 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_01_bundle.md).

The behavior of versioned schemas and tags in a Snowflake Native App is as follows:

Before the change:
:   Tag propagation in a Snowflake Native App occurs with a versioned schema under the following conditions:

    * Create a tag in the versioned schema and assign the tag to an object in a different schema.
    * Create a tag in a non-versioned schema and assign the tag to an object in a versioned schema.
    * Create tables or views in the versioned schema and assign a tag to the tables or views when the tag exists in a non-versioned schema.
    * Create tables or views in a non-versioned schema and assign a tag to the tables or views when the tag exists in a versioned schema.

    In these cases, tag propagation refers to tags being set on objects when the versioned schema increments to the next version.

After the change:
:   Tag propagation does not occur with versioned schemas in a Snowflake Native App and results in the following error message:

    ```output
    A TAG in a versioned schema can only be assigned to the objects in the same schema. An object in a versioned schema can only have a TAG assigned that is defined in the same schema.
    ```

    To prevent the error message, the Snowflake Native App provider should update the setup script to ensure that tags are set on objects within the
    same schema as the tag when a versioned schema contains either the tag or the object on which the tag is set. If a non-versioned schema
    contains either the tag or the object on which the tag is set, it is not necessary to update the setup script.

    If you are a consumer of the Snowflake Native App and you see this error message after installing the app, ask the provider to update their set
    up script.

Ref: 1401
