# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2025_05/bcr-2043.md

# Replication views and functions: New refresh phase SECONDARY_COMMITTING

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2025_05 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2025_05_bundle.md).

Before the change:
:   Views and functions related to replication show report `SECONDARY_DOWNLOADING_DATA` as the last phase before
    a refresh job is marked as `COMPLETED`, `FAILED`, or `CANCELED`.

After the change:
:   When this behavior change bundle is enabled, the views and functions that report progress and history for account replication
    operations include a new value in the `phase_name` column: `SECONDARY_COMMITTING`. This phase happens after
    `SECONDARY_DOWNLOADING_DATA` and before the final phase where the refresh job is marked as `COMPLETED`, `FAILED`, or
    `CANCELED`. During the `SECONDARY_COMMITTING` phase, Snowflake applies the changes to tables from the data files that were
    transmitted from the primary account.

    The output of history-related replication table functions includes a new column `committed_object_count`. This value represents
    the number of tables that have been processed during the associated refresh operation:

    * The subfields have the same names as the subfields in the `object_count` column.
    * This column appears in the result set of the table functions, but not in the views for refresh history.

    The output of progress-related replication table functions includes new subfields in the `progress` and `details` columns:

    * The `progress` column shows the percentage of tables that finished replicating.
      This value reflects only the number of tables that were replicated, not other kinds of objects.
    * The `details` column reflects the same subfields, such as `totalObjects` and `completedObjects`, as the
      `SECONDARY_DOWNLOADING_METADATA` phase.

## Changed table functions

The following table functions are affected by this behavior change bundle.

### History functions

These table functions report the new `SECONDARY_COMMITTING` phase, and include the new `committed_object_count` column in their
result set.

* [REPLICATION_GROUP_REFRESH_HISTORY](../../../sql-reference/functions/replication_group_refresh_history.md)
* [REPLICATION_GROUP_REFRESH_HISTORY_ALL](../../../sql-reference/functions/replication_group_refresh_history.md)
* [LISTING_REFRESH_HISTORY](../../../sql-reference/functions/listing_refresh_history.md)

### Progress functions

These table functions report the new `SECONDARY_COMMITTING` phase in the `progress` and `details` columns of their result
sets. They don’t include the `committed_object_count` column in their result set.

* [REPLICATION_GROUP_REFRESH_PROGRESS](../../../sql-reference/functions/replication_group_refresh_progress.md)
* [REPLICATION_GROUP_REFRESH_PROGRESS_BY_JOB](../../../sql-reference/functions/replication_group_refresh_progress.md)
* [REPLICATION_GROUP_REFRESH_PROGRESS_ALL](../../../sql-reference/functions/replication_group_refresh_progress.md)
* [AVAILABLE_LISTING_REFRESH_HISTORY](../../../sql-reference/functions/available_listing_refresh_history.md) (despite the name, this
  function reports the progress of a refresh)

## Changed account usage and organization usage views

The following account usage and organization usage views are affected by this behavior change bundle. These views show the new
`SECONDARY_COMMITTING` phase. These views don’t include any new column. For real-time monitoring, use the table functions.

* [ACCOUNT_USAGE.REPLICATION_GROUP_REFRESH_HISTORY](../../../sql-reference/account-usage/replication_group_refresh_history.md)
* [ORGANIZATION_USAGE.REPLICATION_GROUP_REFRESH_HISTORY](../../../sql-reference/organization-usage/replication_group_refresh_history.md)

## Deprecated functions

This BCR has no effect on the deprecated functions for database replication, whose names start with `SYSTEM$DATABASE_REFRESH_`.
The `SECONDARY_COMMITTING` phase *isn’t* shown by those functions.

Ref: 2043
