# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2025_01/bcr-1875.md

# Multi-factor authentication: New Duo interface

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2025_01 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2025_01_bundle.md).

When users are required to use multi-factor authentication (MFA) to sign in to Snowflake, they use Duo to enroll in and authenticate with
MFA. When this behavior change bundle is enabled, the Duo enrollment and authentication experience changes.

Before the change:
:   The traditional Duo Prompt interface appears during enrollment and authentication.

After the change:
:   The new Duo Universal Prompt interface appears during enrollment and authentication. For a description of the new interface, see
    [What are the differences between the traditional Duo Prompt and the Universal Prompt?](https://help.duo.com/s/article/7118).

In most cases, this change does not require any modifications to your environment. However, you might need to configure your environment if
any of the following is true:

* If your account name contains an underscore *and* you use private connectivity, you need to add a DNS entry that includes a dash instead
  of an underscore in the account URL. For example, if your account name is `account_dev` and your organization is `myorg`, then add an
  entry like `myorg-account-dev.privatelink.snowflakecomputing.com`.
* If your corporate firewall or proxy blocks `api-*.duosecurity.com`, `*.devicemanagement.duosecurity.com`, or `*.duosecurity.com:443`,
  modify it to allow these values. Snowflake previously recommended allowing `*.duosecurity.com:443`.

Ref: 1875
