# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2025_01/bcr-1872.md

# Personal databases and private notebooks (*Private notebooks deprecated*)

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2025_01 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2025_01_bundle.md).

This behavior change was originally introduced in the 2025_01 bundle. To give users additional evaluation time, this behavior change remains
disabled in 2025_02. If you previously enabled personal databases in 2025_01 or set the `ENABLE_PERSONAL_DATABASE` parameter and want to opt
out, you must now [disable](../../../user-guide/ui-snowsight/workspaces.md) the `ENABLE_PERSONAL_DATABASE` parameter.

When a user creates a private notebook, a personal database and a schema named PUBLIC are created for the user. The personal database acts
as a dedicated workspace for creating, modifying, and managing private notebooks, which are accessible only to the individual user.

You can use the following SHOW and DESCRIBE commands to view information about private notebooks, personal databases, and schemas
inside those personal databases:

* [DESCRIBE NOTEBOOK](../../../sql-reference/sql/desc-notebook.md)
* [SHOW DATABASES](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-databases.md)
* [SHOW SCHEMAS](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-schemas.md)
* [SHOW NOTEBOOKS](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-notebooks.md)

Before the change:
:   When a user creates a notebook, it is owned by the user’s current role and viewable by any user with that role.

After the change:
:   By default, notebooks are private and owned by the current user. When a private notebook is ready for production, a user can deploy it to
    a standard, non-personal database.

Ref: 1872
