# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_01/bcr-1138.md

# ASOF JOIN syntax: Restricted use of keywords

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_01 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_01_bundle.md).

The ASOF JOIN feature behaves as follows:

Before the change:
:   The use of ASOF and MATCH_CONDITION as object names, object aliases, session variables,
    and bind variables is not restricted.

After the change:
:   ASOF and MATCH_CONDITION are new keywords. The use of these keywords in SELECT commands
    and commands that set or use session or bind variables is restricted.

    **Names of objects**

    If a SELECT statement uses ASOF or MATCH_CONDITION as the name of a table, view, or inline view, you must
    identify it as follows:

    * If the object was created with double quotes in the name, use the same double-quoted name.
    * If the object was created without double quotes in the name, use double quotes and capital letters.

    For example, the following statements are no longer allowed and return errors:

    ```sqlexample
    SELECT * FROM asof;
    WITH match_condition AS (SELECT * FROM T1)
      SELECT * FROM match_condition;
    ```

    If you created the objects with double quotes, fix the problem by using double quotes:

    ```sqlexample
    SELECT * FROM "asof";
    WITH "match_condition" AS (SELECT * FROM T1)
      SELECT * FROM "match_condition";
    ```

    If you created the objects without double quotes, fix the problem by using double quotes and capital letters:

    ```sqlexample
    SELECT * FROM "ASOF";
    WITH "MATCH_CONDITION" AS (SELECT * FROM T1)
      SELECT * FROM "MATCH_CONDITION";
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > Snowflake recommends that you discontinue the use of these object names in your applications.

    **Names of aliases**

    If a SELECT statement uses ASOF or MATCH_CONDITION as an alias, you must use AS before the alias or double-quote
    the alias. For example, the following statements are no longer allowed and return errors:

    ```sqlexample
    SELECT * FROM t1 asof;
    SELECT * FROM t2 match_condition;
    ```

    Fix the problem in one of the following ways:

    ```sqlexample
    SELECT * FROM t1 AS asof;
    SELECT * FROM t1 "asof";
    SELECT * FROM t2 AS match_condition;
    SELECT * FROM t2 "match_condition";
    ```

    **Names of variables**

    If you are using session variables or bind variables with the name ASOF or MATCH_CONDITION,
    and their names were not double-quoted when they were created, they must be renamed or removed.

    For example, you can no longer set a session variable named `asof`:

    ```sqlexample
    set asof ='2024/01/15';
    ```

    ```output
    001003 (42000): SQL compilation error:
    syntax error line 1 at position 4 unexpected 'asof'.
    ```

    However, you can set a variable that is explicitly double-quoted and named `"asof"` or `"ASOF"`:

    ```sqlexample
    set "asof" ='2024/01/15';
    ```

    ```output
    +----------------------------------+
    | status                           |
    |----------------------------------|
    | Statement executed successfully. |
    +----------------------------------+
    ```

    The same rules apply to bind variables, such as `:asof` and `:match_condition`.

Ref: 1138
