# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/un-bundled/bcr-2117.md

# Defaulting accounts from Worksheets to Workspaces

Starting in September 2025, Snowflake will gradually default accounts from Worksheets to Workspaces.

| Cohort | Timing of change |
| --- | --- |
| New organizations | Currently available to some new customers |
| On Demand accounts | Gradual rollout begins in September |
| Organizations with only Standard Edition accounts | Gradual rollout begins in September |
| Organizations with only Enterprise Edition and below accounts | Gradual rollout begins in late October |
| Organizations with only Business Critical Edition and below accounts | Gradual rollout begins in November |
| Organizations with Virtual Private Snowflake (VPS) and below accounts | Gradual rollout begins in January 2026 |

> **Note:**
>
> Classic Console users will be upgraded to Workspaces starting in September 2025.

Before the change:
:   Worksheets is the default SQL editing experience in Snowflake.

After the change:
:   Workspaces is the default SQL editing experience in Snowflake. Opening a worksheet will open it in the Workspaces editor, and navigation
    options to Worksheets will be replaced with Workspaces. For now, users can still navigate back to the original Worksheets editor from within
    Workspaces or revert the default themselves.

To set Workspaces as the account-wide default editor for all users from Snowsight, follow these steps:

1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md) as ACCOUNTADMIN.
2. In the lower-left corner, select your name » Settings.
3. Under Account, choose General.
4. Enable the Set Workspaces as default SQL editor for the account option.

   Administrators can revert to Worksheets as the default editor by disabling this option. If users want to revert to Worksheets, they can also
   select Go to Worksheets from the Workspaces UI:

   Or toggle the user setting in the Workspaces editor:

Administrators have several options for managing this transition by setting the `USE_WORKSPACES_FOR_SQL` parameter.

To set the account-wide default editor to be Workspaces for all users:

```sqlexample
ALTER ACCOUNT SET USE_WORKSPACES_FOR_SQL = 'always';
```

To revert this setting and use the previous default editor, but respect any Snowflake-managed BCR that makes Workspaces the default:

```sqlexample
ALTER ACCOUNT UNSET USE_WORKSPACES_FOR_SQL;
```

To revert to the previous editor and temporarily ignore any Snowflake-managed BCR that makes Workspaces the default:

```sqlexample
ALTER ACCOUNT SET USE_WORKSPACES_FOR_SQL = 'never';
```

> **Note:**
>
> Worksheets will eventually become deprecated and the command above will no longer work. If you had previously set this parameter, it will
> be automatically cleared once Worksheets is deprecated. Snowflake will provide advance notice when a deprecation date is available.

For more information on Workspaces, see [Workspaces](../../../user-guide/ui-snowsight/workspaces.md).

Ref: 2117, 2075
