# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_02/bcr-1519.md

# Apache Iceberg™ tables: Updates to metadata retention period

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_02 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_02_bundle.md).

Snowflake determines the metadata retention period for [Apache Iceberg™ tables
that use a catalog integration](../../../user-guide/tables-iceberg.md) as follows:

Before the change:
:   Snowflake retrieves the value of `history.expire.max-snapshot-age-ms` from the current
    metadata file, converts the value to days (rounding down), and stores it in the
    DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS parameter.

    If Snowflake doesn’t find `history.expire.max-snapshot-age-ms` in the metadata file,
    or can’t parse the value, it sets DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS at the table level to a
    default value of 5 days (the default Apache Iceberg value).

    You can also change the value of DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS manually.

After the change:
:   Snowflake sets DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS at the table level to whichever of
    the following values is *smaller*:

    * `history.expire.max-snapshot-age-ms`
    * The following value, depending on your Snowflake account edition:

      + Standard Edition: 1 day.
      + Enterprise Edition or higher: 5 days.

    You can’t change the value of DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS manually. Instead, you must update
    `history.expire.max-snapshot-age-ms` and refresh the table.

Ref: 1519
