# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_08/bcr-1338.md

# Snowsight: Default interface for all users in Standard Edition accounts

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_08 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_08_bundle.md).

Snowflake customers with a Capacity commitment where all accounts in the organization are
[Standard Edition](../../../user-guide/intro-editions.md) accounts are upgraded to Snowsight.
For those organizations, all users see Snowsight after signing in to the Snowflake web interface.

To see if your organization is affected by this change, an organization administrator (user with the ORGADMIN role) can run
[SHOW ORGANIZATION ACCOUNTS](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-organization-accounts.md) and review the output.
If the following conditions are both true, this change affects users in your organization:

* In the EDITION column, all accounts listed display STANDARD.
* In the CREATED_ON column, all dates are earlier than October 4, 2023, or 2023-10-04 00:00:00.000 +0000 to match the format of the output.

If you use private connectivity to access Snowflake and have not yet set up your private connectivity configuration to access Snowsight,
you are not affected by this change. See [Configuring private connectivity for Snowsight](../../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md) to prepare for upgrading to Snowsight.

Before the change:
:   Users can choose which web interface is the default experience for their user profile within an account. After signing in, users see
    the web interface specified as the default experience, Classic Console or Snowsight.

After the change:
:   All users in an account see Snowsight after signing in.

    Users can no longer choose a default experience for their user profile. If needed, users can access
    Classic Console from Snowsight.

Ref: 1338
