# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_03/bcr-1354.md

# New SQL functions: GREATEST_IGNORE_NULLS and LEAST_IGNORE_NULLS may conflict with similarly named UDFs

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_03 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_03_bundle.md).

Snowflake is introducing two new built-in functions:

* GREATEST_IGNORE_NULLS: Returns the largest non-NULL value from a list of expressions. If all of the argument values are NULLs, the result is NULL.

  GREATEST_IGNORE_NULLS supports arguments of all data types, including VARIANT.
* LEAST_IGNORE_NULLS: Returns the smallest non-NULL value from a list of expressions. If all of the argument values are NULLs, the result is NULL.

  LEAST_IGNORE_NULLS supports arguments of all data types, including VARIANT.

If you have a user-defined function (UDF) named GREATEST_IGNORE_NULLS or LEAST_IGNORE_NULLS, calls to your function have the following effect:

Before the change:
:   A call to your UDF named GREATEST_IGNORE_NULLS or LEAST_IGNORE_NULLS resolves to your UDF.

After the change:
:   A call to your UDF named GREATEST_IGNORE_NULLS or LEAST_IGNORE_NULLS resolves to the new built-in GREATEST_IGNORE_NULLS or LEAST_IGNORE_NULLS function.
    The built-in GREATEST_IGNORE_NULLS or LEAST_IGNORE_NULLS function might work differently than your UDF.

If the documented semantics of the new built-in GREATEST_IGNORE_NULLS or LEAST_IGNORE_NULLS function does not match the semantics of your UDF, you can either:

* Rename your UDF (using [ALTER FUNCTION … RENAME TO …](../../../sql-reference/sql/alter-function.md)) and replace all references
  to the original UDF name with the new name.
* [Fully qualify](../../../sql-reference/name-resolution.md) all references to your UDF by specifying the names of the database and
  schema containing the UDF. For example:

  ```sqlexample
  SELECT my_database.my_schema.greatest_ignore_nulls(...);

  SELECT my_database.my_schema.least_ignore_nulls(...);
  ```

Ref: 1354
