# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/un-bundled/bcr-2072.md

# Snowflake Native Apps: Deprecation of Python versions 3.8 and 3.9 (Pending)

> **Note:**
>
> This behavior change is not applicable if you are not a Snowflake Native App Provider and
> you have not installed or intend to install a Snowflake Native App in your account.

Snowflake deprecates and eventually decommissions versions of the Python runtime that are
no longer actively maintained. When Python version 3.9 is deprecated in October, 2025,
Snowflake Native Apps will no longer support any deprecated versions of Python. For more information
on Snowflake’s Python runtime support policy, see
[Snowflake Python Runtime Support](../../../developer-guide/python-runtime-support-policy.md).

Before the change:
:   Snowflake Native Apps can create functions using decommissioned versions of the Python runtime.

After the change:
:   Snowflake Native Apps no longer supports decommissioned versions of the Python runtime. For more
    information, see Considerations for Snowflake Native App providers and
    Considerations for Snowflake Native App consumers.

    As a Snowflake Native App provider, you will begin receiving email notifications about this change
    during the deprecation period starting in October, 2025. You will have time to update your app before the Python versions are decommissioned.

## Considerations for Snowflake Native App providers

When this change is enabled, apps cannot create functions that use decommissioned
versions of Python. Providers cannot create or publish new versions of an app that
attempt to create functions that use decommissioned versions of Python. Existing published
versions of an app that use decommissioned versions of Python cannot be installed.

If an existing app uses a decommissioned version of the Python runtime, but does not create
new functions that use the decommissioned version, the app will continue to function.

## Considerations for Snowflake Native App consumers

When this change is enabled, consumers cannot install versions of an app that use
decommissioned versions of Python. Existing installations of an app that create new
functions that use decommissioned versions of Python will fail. If an existing app
uses a decommissioned version of the Python runtime, but does not create new functions
that use the decommissioned version, the app will continue to function.

Ref: 2072
