# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2025_05/bcr-2067.md

# User types: TYPE property is set to PERSON instead of NULL

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2025_05 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2025_05_bundle.md).

There are different [types of Snowflake users](../../../user-guide/admin-user-management.md), where each type corresponds to a value of the user
object’s TYPE property. Users of type NULL were always treated as if they were of type PERSON, and this change does not alter
that behavior. This behavior change is about whether the user type can be NULL.

Before the change:
:   A user of type NULL is treated as a user of type PERSON. The user type can be NULL in the following situations:

    * The TYPE property isn’t set or is set to NULL when running a CREATE USER command.
    * Someone runs an ALTER USER … SET TYPE=NULL command.
    * Someone runs an ALTER USER … UNSET TYPE command.
    * A SCIM request doesn’t specify the `type` attribute or sets it to NULL.

After the change:
:   The TYPE property of a new user object can’t be NULL, and you can’t set the TYPE property of an existing user to NULL. This is enforced
    by the following behavior:

    * If you run a CREATE USER command without setting the TYPE property, it is set to PERSON.
    * If you run an ALTER USER … UNSET TYPE command, the TYPE property is set to PERSON.
    * If you run an ALTER USER … SET TYPE=NULL command, the TYPE property is set to PERSON.
    * If you send a SCIM POST request to create a user, and the `type` attribute is unspecified or NULL, the TYPE property is set to
      PERSON.
    * If you send a SCIM PATCH request with a `replace` operation that specifies the `type` attribute as NULL, the TYPE property
      doesn’t change.
    * If you send a SCIM PUT request with a `replace` operation, and the `type` attribute is unspecified or NULL, the TYPE
      property is set to PERSON.
    * If you send a SCIM PATCH request with a `remove` operation that unsets the `type` attribute, the TYPE property doesn’t
      change.

Ref: 2067
