# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/un-bundled/bcr-2056.md

# Authentication for local applications: Built-in security integration for Snowflake OAuth

Applications that use [Snowflake OAuth](../../../user-guide/oauth-snowflake-overview.md) to authenticate need a security integration that defines
the interface between Snowflake and the application. This change introduces a built-in, system-owned security integration that simplifies
how local desktop applications authenticate with Snowflake OAuth.

> **Note:**
>
> When this behavior change is enabled, the built-in security integration will be rolled out to accounts slowly, and might not be available
> immediately.

Before the change:
:   You must always create and configure a security integration if you want an application to use Snowflake OAuth to authenticate to
    Snowflake.

After the change:
:   Local, desktop applications that want to authenticate with Snowflake OAuth don’t have to create a security integration. The built-in
    security integration `SNOWFLAKE$LOCAL_APPLICATION` exists in all accounts. It is a security integration of type OAUTH.

    Because you don’t need to create a security integration, application developers can implement Snowflake OAuth without the assistance of a
    Snowflake administrator. But a security administrator can still configure the built-in security integration to control things like the
    validity duration of access tokens and whether to use single-use refresh tokens.

    Only local, desktop applications can authenticate using the built-in security integration. Other types of applications — for example,
    third-party web applications — must still create and configure a security integration if they want to authenticate with Snowflake OAuth.

## Benefits of the built-in integration

Using the `SNOWFLAKE$LOCAL_APPLICATION` security integration to authenticate local applications has the following benefits:

* Provides a straightforward authentication method that is an alternative to password authentication, helping you conform to the upcoming
  Snowflake requirement that human users use multi-factor authentication (MFA) if they authenticate with a password.
* Reduces administrative friction; no initial administrator action is required to use Snowflake OAuth.
* Improves the user experience for developers, especially those using the Snowflake CLI.
* Enables local applications to use OAuth as a singular authentication method, eliminating the need for complex configurations and making
  the authentication process mostly opaque to the application.
* Supports in-role session switching like other authentication methods. A user-defined Snowflake OAuth security integration doesn’t support
  in-role session switching.
* Isolates local applications from user credentials. This eliminates long-living credentials on disk, meaning sensitive authentication data,
  such as passwords or personal access tokens, aren’t persisted in an insecure manner.

Having a built-in security integration doesn’t weaken the security posture of your account, but rather combines an enhanced user
experience with the most secure form of local authentication. Creating new sessions within the window of OAuth refresh token validity is
equivalent to the existing pattern of using saved user credentials to create new sessions. In addition, administrators retain control over
authentication by using [authentication policies](../../../user-guide/authentication-policies.md) to dictate which credentials are allowed for
users.

## Opt out of the change

An account administrator can disable the `SNOWFLAKE$LOCAL_APPLICATION` security integration for an account. This action prevents local
applications from using Snowflake OAuth to authenticate unless an administrator creates their own security integration.

To opt out of this change so that security administrators can’t enable the `SNOWFLAKE$LOCAL_APPLICATION` security integration, run the
following commands:

```sqlexample
USE ROLE ACCOUNTADMIN;

ALTER ACCOUNT SET DISABLE_SNOWFLAKE_LOCAL_APPLICATION_INTEGRATION = TRUE;
```

Using the DISABLE_SNOWFLAKE_LOCAL_APPLICATION_INTEGRATION parameter to opt out doesn’t prevent the `SNOWFLAKE$LOCAL_APPLICATION`
integration from being created. The integration will still exist in your account, but its ENABLED property will be FALSE, and a security
administrator can’t change the property to TRUE.

The account administrator can set the DISABLE_SNOWFLAKE_LOCAL_APPLICATION_INTEGRATION parameter before the `SNOWFLAKE$LOCAL_APPLICATION`
integration is created in an account so that the integration is never enabled.

If the account administrator doesn’t use the account parameter to opt out, a security administrator can still disable the
`SNOWFLAKE$LOCAL_APPLICATION` integration after it is created. To disable the built-in security integration after it exists in the
account, run the following commands:

```sqlexample
USE ROLE SECURITYADMIN;

ALTER SECURITY INTEGRATION SNOWFLAKE$LOCAL_APPLICATION SET ENABLED = FALSE;
```

Ref: 2056
