# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_03/bcr-949.md

# Account Usage: Changes to Columns in DATABASES View

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_03 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_03_bundle.md).

In a future release, the RETENTION_TIME column in the DATABASES view will change. In addition, a new RESOURCE_GROUP column will be added to the view.

## RETENTION_TIME Column

The data retention period for a database is determined by the retention time parameter settings set on the database and account. These parameters are [DATA_RETENTION_TIME _IN_DAYS](../../../sql-reference/parameters.md) and [MIN_DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS](../../../sql-reference/parameters.md).

* If the retention time is not explicitly set for a database, it inherits the setting for the account.
* If there is no retention time set at the account level, the default retention time for a database is 1 day.
* The maximum retention time for a transient database is 1 day, regardless of the account-level setting.
* If there is a minimum retention time set for the account, and a retention time explicitly set on a database, the effective retention time for the database is the greater of the two: MAX(DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS, MIN_DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS).

The RETENTION_TIME column in the Account Usage [DATABASES View](../../../sql-reference/account-usage/databases.md) might display the incorrect value in the following scenarios:

* If there is no explicit retention time set for transient databases, and the retention time for the account is set to 7 days, the RETENTION_TIME column value is 7 days. This is incorrect. The maximum data retention time for a transient database is 1 day.
* If the minimum retention time for an account is 7 days, and the retention time setting for a database is 4 days, the RETENTION_TIME column value is 4 days. This is incorrect. The minimum account retention time is longer and therefore overrides the retention time explicitly set for the database.
* If the retention time is set to 10 days for a database, then unset, the RETENTION_TIME column value is the unset value (in this case 10). This might be incorrect.

The RETENTION_TIME column value behaves as follows:

Previously:
:   In some cases, the RETENTION_TIME column displays an incorrect data retention time for databases.

Currently:
:   The RETENTION_TIME column will display the correct data retention time for databases.

For more information about setting the data retention period, refer to [Specifying the Data Retention Period for an Object](../../../user-guide/data-time-travel.md).

## RESOURCE_GROUP Column (New)

In a future release, the Account Usage DATABASES view will include the following new column:

| Column Name | Data Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| RESOURCE_GROUP | TEXT | Reserved for future use. |

Ref: 949
