# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_01/bcr-934.md

# Temporary Tables: Changes to Table Creation in Schemas (Pending)

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_01 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_01_bundle.md).

## Streams: CREATE STREAM and CREATE | ALTER VIEW Propagate CHANGE_TRACKING Parameter to Underlying Objects

[CREATE STREAM](../../../sql-reference/sql/create-stream.md), [CREATE VIEW](../../../sql-reference/sql/create-view.md), and [ALTER VIEW](../../../sql-reference/sql/alter-view.md) now
propagate CHANGE_TRACKING = TRUE to associated underlying tables and views, and fails accordingly when insufficient permissions are
encountered:

Previously:
:   *CREATE STREAM … CHANGE_TRACKING = TRUE statements attempted to enable CHANGE_TRACKING recursively on base tables, and they failed if
      insufficient permissions were encountered.
    * ALTER/CREATE VIEW … CHANGE_TRACKING = TRUE statements attempted to enable CHANGE_TRACKING recursively on base views and tables of
      the target view. If insufficient permissions were encountered, the statement should have failed, but didn’t.

Currently:
:   CREATE STREAM and ALTER/CREATE VIEW now correctly propagate CHANGE_TRACKING = TRUE to the underlying database objects. Both
    types of statements fail if permissions are insufficient for any part of the base object tree.

> **Note:**
>
> With CREATE STREAM, if sufficient permissions aren’t available, base tables and views are left unchanged. With ALTER/CREATE VIEW, base
> objects are left unchanged, but the view itself has CHANGE_TRACKING enabled.

Ref: 934
