# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_02/bcr-1520.md

# Python Snowpark Stored Procedures and UDFs: Tracing improvements in Event table

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_02 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_02_bundle.md).

Users can now see how queries from chained calls are linked when a Python stored procedure calls another Python stored procedure or a Python
stored procedure calls a Python UDF. To use this capability, an Event table must be configured and tracing must be enabled.
The values displayed in the `TRACE:"trace_id"` and `RECORD:"parent_span_id"` columns of the Event table are as follows:

Before the change:
:   The `trace_id` of each of the spans created by chained Python stored procedures or UDFs is unique.
    The `parent_span_id` field does not exist in the RECORD column of the Event table.
    Native apps providers and consumers see different `trace_ids` for shared events. The provider sees the hashed version.

After the change:
:   Spans generated by chained Python stored procedures or UDFs have the same `trace_id`.

    Spans generated by chained Python stored procedures or UDFs have a parent-child relationship between `span_id` and `parent_span_id`.
    Python stored procedures can call other stored procedures in a chain of any length, but UDFs can’t execute SQL statements so calling
    a UDF ends the chain. However, the trace info is still propagated to the UDF’s spans.

    If the Python stored procedure or UDF was called by the user directly (the root), then the `trace_id` will be a random ID and there
    will be no `parent_span_id`. If tracing is disabled for a stored procedure and it calls another stored procedure or UDF, then the
    `trace_id` of the child’s spans will be random and they will have no `parent_span_id`. In other words, the trace is restarted at the child.

    Native apps providers and consumers see the same `trace_id` for shared Python stored procedure or UDF events, so they can be debugged more easily.

Native Apps providers who share applications containing Python stored procedures that call other Python stored procedures or UDFs expose
the call stack and parent-child relationships of the stored procedures to the consumer. To avoid this, disable tracing.

Ref: 1520
