# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/un-bundled/bcr-2094.md

# OAuth authentication: Change in network policy behavior (Canceled)

> **Note:**
>
> This behavior change was part of the 2025_06 bundle, but the change has been canceled.
>
> Even though this behavior change was canceled, Snowflake implemented some of the changes outside the behavior change process. To learn how Snowflake enforces network policies that are attached to a security integration for Snowflake OAuth or External OAuth, see:
>
> * [Restricting network traffic for Snowflake OAuth](../../../user-guide/oauth-snowflake-overview.md)
> * [Restricting network traffic for External OAuth](../../../user-guide/oauth-ext-overview.md)

## Snowflake OAuth authentication: Change in the network policy used for a request from client to Snowflake

Snowflake OAuth lets you use a network policy to restrict network traffic from the OAuth client and
from the user who is authenticating. There can be three different network policies restricting this traffic:

* A network policy controlling requests from the OAuth client. This network policy is associated with the security integration that allows
  the client to interact with Snowflake.
* A network policy controlling requests from the user who is authenticating. This network policy is associated with the user.
* An account-level network policy that governs when there isn’t an integration-level or user-level network policy.

This behavior change affects which network policy governs a request from the OAuth client to Snowflake. The following diagram highlights the
request that is affected by the change:

Before the change:
:   The user-level network policy, not the integration-level network policy, governs a request that sends an access token from the OAuth
    client to Snowflake as the Resource Server.

After the change:
:   The integration-level network policy, if specified, governs a request that sends an access token from the OAuth client to Snowflake as the
    Resource Server. If there is no integration-level network policy, the account-level network policy governs.

The network policies that govern other requests to Snowflake have not changed:

* User authorization and user consent requests sent from the user to Snowflake are still governed by the user-level network policy, if
  specified.
* The access token request sent from the OAuth client to Snowflake is still governed by the integration-level network policy, if specified.

## External OAuth: Integration-level network policy takes precedence

When this bundle is enabled, you’ll be able to associate a network policy with an External OAuth security integration. Previously, only a
Snowflake OAuth security integration could be associated with a network policy.

As part of this change, Snowflake will no longer consider user-level network policies when restricting network traffic from the OAuth
client. Snowflake will enforce this change incrementally according to the following schedule:

* **When the change is Enabled by Default**, Snowflake considers the user-level network policy and the integration-level network
  policy when restricting requests from the OAuth client.

  To avoid failures during this period, attach the current user-level network policy to the security integration. The following code shows
  you how to determine the network policy that is assigned to the user, and then assign that same policy to the integration.

  Find the network policy attached to the user:

  ```sqlexample
  SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'network_policy' IN USER <user_name>;
  ```

  Attach the network policy returned by the preceding command to the External OAuth security integration:

  ```sqlexample
  ALTER SECURITY INTEGRATION <external_oauth_integration_name>
    SET NETWORK_POLICY = <network_policy_attached_to_user>;
  ```

* **When the change is Generally Enabled**, a user-level network policy has no effect on requests from the OAuth client to Snowflake.
  Snowflake checks these requests against the integration-level network policy, then checks the account-level policy. Because the user-level
  network policy has no effect, you should remove it from the user by running the following command:

  ```sqlexample
  ALTER USER <user_name> UNSET NETWORK_POLICY;
  ```

Ref: 2094
