# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2025_06/bcr-2086.md

# Multi-factor authentication: MFA_AUTHENTICATION_METHODS parameter deprecation

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2025_06 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2025_06_bundle.md).

This behavior change deprecates a parameter of [authentication policies](../../../user-guide/authentication-policies.md) and replaces it with a
new parameter. The change behaves as follows:

Before the change:
:   The MFA_AUTHENTICATION_METHODS parameter of an authentication policy specifies a list of authentication methods that enforce multi-factor
    authentication (MFA) during login.

    There are two possible values to the MFA_AUTHENTICATION_METHODS parameter: `PASSWORD` and `SAML`.

After the change:
:   The MFA_AUTHENTICATION_METHODS parameter is deprecated. There is no longer a parameter to specify whether MFA is required for password
    users who are enrolled in MFA; if a password user is enrolled in MFA, they must use a second factor of authentication.

    A new parameter ENFORCE_MFA_ON_EXTERNAL_AUTHENTICATION is available in an authentication policy to specify whether MFA is required for
    single-sign on (SSO) logins. The new parameter has two possible values: `ALL` and `NONE`. If `ALL` is specified, then
    MFA is enforced for SSO logins when users are enrolled in MFA.

    If your existing authentication policy had `MFA_AUTHENTICATION_METHODS = 'SAML'`, then the new ENFORCE_MFA_ON_EXTERNAL_AUTHENTICATION
    parameter is set to `ALL`.

This change helps implement a milestone in the [deprecation of single-factor password logins](../../../user-guide/security-mfa-rollout.md). It
works in conjunction with another behavior change in this bundle: [Multi-factor authentication: MFA_ENROLLMENT parameter values change](bcr-2097.md).

For detailed information about how the changes in this bundle affect password and SSO authentication for your users based on your current
authentication policy, see [Upcoming Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) enforcement for Snowsight logins with single-factor passwords](https://community.snowflake.com/s/article/Upcoming-MFA-enforcement-for-Snowsight-logins) (Knowledge Base article).

Ref: 2086
