# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_05/bcr-1135.md

# New Functions: ARRAY_SORT, ARRAY_MIN, and ARRAY_MAX May Conflict With Similarly Named UDFs

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_05 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_05_bundle.md).

In the current release, Snowflake introduces new built-in functions with the following names and signatures:

* ARRAY_SORT returns the elements of the input ARRAY in sorted order. This function has the following signatures:

  * `ARRAY_SORT(input_array)`

    Sorts the elements in ascending order with NULLs placed at the end of the array.
  * `ARRAY_SORT(input_array, sort_ascending)`

    Sorts the elements in ascending order if `sort_ascending` is TRUE or in descending order if
    `sort_ascending` is FALSE.

    NULLs are sorted last if `sort_ascending` is TRUE or first if `sort_ascending` is FALSE.
  * `ARRAY_SORT(input_array, sort_ascending, nulls_first)`

    Sorts the elements in ascending order if `sort_ascending` is TRUE or in descending order if
    `sort_ascending` is FALSE.

    NULLs are sorted first if `nulls_first` is TRUE or last if `nulls_first` is FALSE.

  This function is not guaranteed to provide a stable sort when comparing values of two different numeric or timestamp types (or
  objects containing these types).
* ARRAY_MIN returns the minimum defined element in the input array
* ARRAY_MAX returns the maximum defined element in the input array

If you have UDFs named ARRAY_SORT, ARRAY_MIN, or ARRAY_MAX with the same signatures, this behavior change has the following
effect:

Previously:
:   Calls to ARRAY_SORT, ARRAY_MIN, or ARRAY_MAX resolve to your UDFs.

Currently:
:   Calls to ARRAY_SORT, ARRAY_MIN, or ARRAY_MAX will resolve to the new built-in functions.

    The built-in functions might work differently than your UDFs.

If the documented semantics of the new built-in functions do not match the semantics of your UDFs, you can either:

* Rename your UDFs (using [ALTER FUNCTION … RENAME TO …](../../../sql-reference/sql/alter-function.md)), and replace all
  references to the original UDF name with the new name.
* [Fully qualify](../../../sql-reference/name-resolution.md) all references to your UDFs by specifying the names of the database and
  schema containing the UDFs. For example:

  ```sqlexample
  SELECT my_database.my_schema.array_sort(...);
  ```

Ref: 1135
