# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2025_06/bcr-2093.md

# Snowpark Container Services job service: Retention-time increase

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2025_06 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2025_06_bundle.md).

When you run the [EXECUTE JOB SERVICE](../../../sql-reference/sql/execute-job-service.md) command, you start a Snowpark Container Services service as a job. After the job is complete, Snowflake performs the necessary cleanup automatically.

When this behavior change bundle is enabled, the behavior of this automatic cleanup process changes:

Before the change:
:   The automatic cleanup behavior depends on whether you configured the job to run synchronously or asynchronously. You configure the job by specifying or omitting the ASYNC property when running EXECUTE JOB SERVICE.

    * **Synchronous execution (omitting the ASYNC property or setting ASYNC=FALSE):** Snowflake automatically deletes the job service 10 to 20 minutes after completion.
    * **Asynchronous execution (with ASYNC=true):** Snowflake automatically deletes the job service 7 days after completion.

After the change:
:   Snowflake retains both synchronous and asynchronous job services for 14 days after completion before cleanup.

> **Note:**
>
> After a job service completes, Snowflake automatically cleans up the resources allocated to the job service to help reduce costs. You can still access job metadata for up to 14 days by using the [DESCRIBE SERVICE](../../../sql-reference/sql/desc-service.md) and [SHOW SERVICES](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-services.md) commands.
>
> When you recreate a synchronous job with the same name you might get “Object already exists” error because of the retention time increase. In this case, you might consider using a different name when recreating the job, or leave the name out and Snowflake will generate a job name automatically for you.

Ref: 2093
