# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_04/bcr-1611.md

# Snowpark Container Services: Changes to access control for services and endpoints

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_04 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_04_bundle.md).

With this behavior change bundle, Snowpark Container Services now supports fine-grained access control allowing you to manage access privileges for endpoints that a service exposes. You can now grant a service role (defined in the service specification) access privileges to a specific endpoint and use service roles to control who can access the service endpoints.

> **Note:**
>
> The owner role for a service always has access to that service’s endpoints. This change applies only if the current role is not the owner role.

## Changes to the privileges required to create and alter a service function

The privileges required to create or alter a service function are changing:

Before the change:
:   Privileges required to create and manage service functions:

    * **To create a service function:** The current role must have the USAGE privilege on the service being referenced.
    * **To alter a service function:** You can alter a service function and associate it with another service. The current role must have the USAGE privilege on that other service.

After the change:
:   Privileges required to create and manage service functions:

    * **To create a service function:** The current role must have the USAGE privilege on the endpoint. You grant this privilege by granting the service role to the current role.
    * **To alter a service function:** You can alter a service function and associate it with another endpoint. The current role must have been granted the service role with the USAGE privilege on the new endpoint being referenced.

## Changes to the privileges required for ingress to a public endpoint

Users in the Snowflake account where the service is created can use ingress to a public endpoint. The privileges required to use the public endpoint are changing:

Before the change:
:   The current role must have the USAGE privilege on a service that exposes the endpoint.

After the change:
:   The current role must have the USAGE privilege on the endpoint. You grant this privilege by granting the service role to the current role.

## Change to the SHOW ENDPOINTS command output

The list of endpoints returned by this command is changing:

Before the change:
:   Returns a list of all the endpoints associated with the service.

After the change:
:   Returns a list of endpoints associated with the service that the current role has USAGE privileges for.

Ref: 1611
