# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_06/bcr-1683.md

# Tracing: Span and trace IDs propagated from parent to child through procedure calls

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_06 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_06_bundle.md).

In [event tracing](../../../developer-guide/logging-tracing/tracing.md), span and trace IDs behave as follows:

Before the change:
:   The `trace_id` of each of the spans created by chained stored procedures or UDFs is unique when the handler is written in
    JavaScript or Snowflake Scripting.

    The `parent_span_id` field does not exist in the RECORD column of the event table.

    Native apps providers and consumers see different `trace_id` values for shared events. The provider sees the hashed version.

After the change:
:   This change adds trace ID propagation support for handlers written in JavaScript and Snowflake Scripting. This already exists for
    handlers written in Python, Java, and Scala. The new behavior applies to stored procedures and UDFs whose handlers are written in
    JavaScript, as well as to stored procedure handlers written in Snowflake Scripting.

    Spans generated by chained stored procedures or UDFs with JavaScript or Snowflake Scripting handlers have the same `trace_id`.
    The RECORD column may have a `parent_span_id` attribute.

    Spans generated by chained stored procedures or UDFs with JavaScript or Snowflake Scripting handlers have a parent-child relationship
    between `parent_span_id` and `span_id`. Stored procedures with JavaScript or Snowflake Scripting handlers can call other
    stored procedures in a chain of any length. UDFs can’t execute SQL statements, so calling a UDF ends the chain. However, the trace info
    is still propagated to the UDF’s spans.

    If the stored procedure or UDF with a JavaScript or Snowflake Scripting handler was called by the user directly (the root), then the
    `trace_id` will be a random ID and there will be no `parent_span_id`. If tracing is disabled for a stored procedure and it
    calls another stored procedure or UDF, then the `trace_id` of the child’s spans will be random and they will have no
    `parent_span_id`. In other words, the trace is restarted at the child.

    Native apps providers and consumers see the same `trace_id` for shared JavaScript or Snowflake Scripting stored procedure or UDF
    events, so they can be debugged more easily.

This change is being made to improve debugging.

Ref: 1683
