# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_06/bcr-1595-1652.md

# SHOW COMPUTE POOLS and DESC COMPUTE POOL commands: New column in output

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_06 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_06_bundle.md).

When this behavior change bundle is enabled, the output of the [SHOW COMPUTE POOLS](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-compute-pools.md) and [DESCRIBE COMPUTE POOL](../../../sql-reference/sql/desc-compute-pool.md) command includes the following new columns:

| Column name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| BUDGET | The name of the [budget](../../../user-guide/budgets.md) monitoring the credit usage of the compute pool. |
| TARGET_NODES | Indicates the number of nodes that Snowflake is targeting for your compute pool. If `active_nodes` is not equal to the `target_nodes`, then Snowflake will autoscale the cluster to add or remove the nodes  **Note:** The `target_nodes` column appears immediately after the existing `idle_nodes` column. |

The following examples demonstrate how to interpret the values in the `target_nodes` column.

**Example 1:** Suppose in a [CREATE COMPUTE POOL](../../../sql-reference/sql/create-compute-pool.md) command, you specify MIN_NODES=1 and MAX_NODES=3.

While Snowflake is provisioning a node, initially the value in the `active_nodes` and `idle_nodes` columns is 0, and the value in the `target_nodes` column is 1. (The value in the `target_nodes` column is the same as the value that you specified for the MIN_NODES parameter.) This indicates that there should be one node in the compute pool that Snowflake is provisioning.

After Snowflake provisions one node, the value in the `idle_nodes` column is 1 (assuming that there are no services running). The value in the `target_nodes` column is still 1, indicating there should be one node in the compute pool.

**Example 2:** Snowflake might try to add a node to an existing compute pool due to autoscaling or changes to the minimum number of nodes (through
[ALTER COMPUTE POOL … SET MIN_NODES](../../../sql-reference/sql/alter-compute-pool.md)).

While Snowflake is provisioning a node, the value in the `state` column is `resizing`. To determine how many nodes Snowflake is adding, check the value in the `target_nodes` column.

For example, suppose that the value in the, `active_nodes` column is 1, the value in the `idle_nodes` column is 0, and you resize the compute pool by updating the MIN_NODES property from 1 to 2. In this case, the value in the `target_nodes` column as 2 (the number of nodes that should be in the compute pool). From this you can infer that Snowflake is provisioning one additional node.

Ref: 1595, 1652
