# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_04/bcr-1044.md

# Users and Groups: Changes to Initial Replication

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_04 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_04_bundle.md).

If you are using a replication or failover group to replicate USERS and/or ROLES from a source account to a target account, and there are
existing users/roles in that account that were created by means other than replication, the initial refresh operation of these object types
results in deleting all users and/or roles in the target account.

If the initial refresh deletes users and/or roles in the target account, it can result in data and metadata loss:

* If USERS are included in the OBJECT_TYPES list for the replication or failover group:

  * Worksheets are lost
  * Query history is lost
* If USERS are included in the OBJECT_TYPES list, but ROLES is not:

  * Privilege grants to users are lost
* If ROLES are included in the OBJECT_TYPES list:

  * Privilege grants to share objects are lost

In a future release, this behavior will change as follows:

Previously:
:   If a replication or failover group includes USERS and/or ROLES in the OBJECT_TYPES list, the initial refresh operation of these object types
    results in dropped users and/or roles in the target account.

Currently:
:   If a replication or failover group includes USERS and/or ROLES in the OBJECT_TYPES list, the initial refresh operation of these object
    types will fail with an error message if:

    * There are existing users and/or roles in the target account that match objects with the same name in the source account and
    * USERS and/or ROLES have not previously been replicated to the target account

    The error message will prompt the user with two options:

    * Force the refresh operation and allow any existing users and/or roles in the target account to be deleted. Users/roles in the source account
      will be recreated in the target account.

      To force a refresh, you would execute the following statement:

      ```sqlexample
      ALTER ( { FAILOVER | REPLICATION } ) GROUP <rg_name> REFRESH FORCE;
      ```
    * Link the account objects by name: users and/or roles with the same name in the target account and the source account will be linked. The
      users/roles in the target account that are linked will not be deleted.

      To link account objects by name, execute the following statement:

      ```sqlexample
      SELECT SYSTEM$LINK_ACCOUNT_OBJECTS_BY_NAME('<rg_name>');
      ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > Any user/role in the target account that does not have a matching object in the source account with the same name is dropped.

For more information, refer to [Apply global IDs to objects created by scripts in target accounts](../../../user-guide/account-replication-config.md).

Ref: 1044
