# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2025_03/bcr-1942.md

# New maximum size limits for database objects

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2025_03 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2025_03_bundle.md).

> **Note:**
>
> This behavior change was originally introduced in the 2025_02 bundle, but was moved to the 2025_03 bundle.

When this behavior change bundle is enabled, the storage of database objects changes as follows:

Before the change:
:   For columns of the following types, the maximum allowed length is **16 MB**:

    * VARCHAR
    * VARIANT
    * ARRAY
    * OBJECT

    For columns of the following types, the maximum allowed length is **8 MB**:

    * BINARY
    * GEOGRAPHY
    * GEOMETRY

    Statements that attempt to store values larger than these maximum allowed lengths fail.

After the change:
:   For columns of the following types, the maximum allowed length is **128 MB**:

    * VARCHAR
    * VARIANT
    * ARRAY
    * OBJECT

    For columns of the following types, the maximum allowed length is **64 MB**:

    * BINARY
    * GEOGRAPHY
    * GEOMETRY

    Statements that attempt to store values up to these new maximum allowed lengths succeed. Statements
    that attempt to store values larger than these maximum allowed lengths fail.

For both existing tables and for tables created after the change, the default length for columns of type VARIANT, ARRAY,
and OBJECT is 128 MB, and the default length for columns of type GEOGRAPHY and GEOMETRY is 64 MB.

However, the default length for columns of type VARCHAR and BINARY is 16 MB and 8 MB, respectively. For columns of type
VARCHAR, you can increase the length by explicitly specifying it when creating a new table or altering an existing
table. For columns of type BINARY, you can increase the length by explicitly specifying it when creating a new table.
You can’t alter the length of a BINARY column in an existing table.

If a table has a new limit and stores objects exceeding 16 MB, any downstream tables created using
[CREATE TABLE AS SELECT (CTAS)](../../../sql-reference/sql/create-table.md) from that table will fail. To prevent this failure, adjust
the CTAS statement, and explicitly set the size of the corresponding VARCHAR column to 134217728 (67108864 for BINARY).

If the 2025_03 bundle is enabled and then disabled, database objects with larger size limits in tables remain accessible.
Support for reading large objects was introduced with [BCR-1779](../2024_08/bcr-1779.md), which
is already enabled for all accounts and can’t be disabled.

For more information about the new size limits, see [Size limits for database objects](../../../user-guide/data-load-considerations-prepare.md).

## Sizes greater than 16 MB are visible in query results

Sizes greater than 16 MB for VARCHAR and 8 MB for BINARY are visible in query results. For example, the sizes are visible
in queries that call the [SYSTEM$TYPEOF](../../../sql-reference/functions/system_typeof.md) function or queries of views that provide
information about functions and procedures (for example, the INFORMATION_SCHEMA [FUNCTIONS view](../../../sql-reference/info-schema/functions.md)).

The following example concatenates two columns that are 16 MB in size:

```sqlexample
CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE test_larger_sizes(col1 VARCHAR, col2 VARCHAR) AS
  SELECT 'foo', 'bar';

SELECT SYSTEM$TYPEOF(CONCAT(col1, col2)) FROM test_larger_sizes;
```

```output
+-----------------------------------+
| SYSTEM$TYPEOF(CONCAT(COL1, COL2)) |
|-----------------------------------|
| VARCHAR(33554432)[LOB]            |
+-----------------------------------+
```

For functions and procedures, the new sizes are shown in the INFORMATION_SCHEMA FUNCTIONS view:

```sqlexample
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION test_larger_sized_func(in_arg VARCHAR)
  RETURNS VARCHAR
  LANGUAGE JAVASCRIPT
  CALLED ON NULL INPUT AS
$$
  RETURN NULL;
$$
;

SELECT data_type FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.FUNCTIONS
  WHERE function_name = 'TEST_LARGER_SIZED_FUNC';
```

```output
+--------------------+
| DATA_TYPE          |
|--------------------|
| VARCHAR(134217728) |
+--------------------+
```

## Error message changes for sizes greater than 16 MB

The error message might change for some queries.

The following is an example of an insert for a VARCHAR column that returns an error:

```sqlexample
CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE test_larger_size_error(col VARCHAR);
INSERT INTO test_larger_size_error SELECT RANDSTR(20000000, 1);
```

The following error message is returned before the change:

```output
100082 (22000): Max LOB size (16777216) exceeded, actual size of parsed column is 20000000
```

The following error message is returned after the change:

```output
100078 (22000): String
'CaFHJdoX3upWliCCdAPXXgytQuXzQpFO4laQEFdmiE1NDOywjwHoBqSNTCzTW66ynuR7EsI4ZxStCh3VMIBMYeHWgv1gUZRmHEK4kGmZcC02jGQhnnFJ0jtcIEWBIN6vKGkvSwG482IvfgVVwF3FTj7sb86t1SK9qigI6ujlSNByytIYBk0lkI1MM0zpRFeH2BNvGxtI.'
is too long and would be truncated
```

## Supported drivers

You might need to update your driver version to the one that supports larger database objects. Otherwise, an error
similar to the following might be returned:

```output
100067 (54000): The data length in result column <column_name> is not supported by this version of the client.
Actual length <actual_size> exceeds supported length of 16777216.
```

For information about the supported drivers, see [Driver versions that support large objects in the result set](../../../user-guide/data-load-considerations-prepare.md).

## Iceberg support

For externally managed Iceberg tables, the default length for VARCHAR and BINARY columns is 128 MB. This limit applies to
newly created or refreshed tables. Tables created before the new size limit was enabled and not refreshed still
have the old size limit. Refresh existing tables to increase the size limits.

For managed Iceberg tables, the default length for VARCHAR and BINARY columns is 128 MB. Tables created before
the new size limit was enabled still have the old size limit.

To apply the new size to columns of type VARCHAR in these tables, recreate the tables or alter the columns.
The following example alters a column to use the new size limit:

```sqlexample
ALTER ICEBERG TABLE my_iceberg_table
  ALTER COLUMN col1 SET DATA TYPE VARCHAR(134217728);
```

To apply the new size to columns of type BINARY in these tables, recreate the tables. You can’t alter the length
of a BINARY column in an existing table.

Ref: 1942
