# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_03/bcr-1008.md

# UDFs: Functions with Handler Code That Reads Files from a Stage Execute in the Owner’s Context

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_03 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_03_bundle.md).

UDFs whose handler code reads files from a stage will execute in the owner’s context.
A caller must pass the file location as a scoped URL, whether the handler code is in a UDF or procedure and regardless of whether
they are running with caller’s or owner’s rights:

Previously:
:   When Java code in a UDF handler [reads a file from a stage](../../../user-guide/unstructured-data-java.md), it does so using the caller’s context.

    A caller may pass the file’s location to the function using a form such as `select my_function('@stage-name/filename.txt').`

    Handler code receives the stage URL and reads the file with `SnowflakeFile.newInstance` and `SnowflakeFile.getInputStream` or
    receives the file as a `java.io.InputStream`:

    ```java
    SnowflakeFile sfFile = SnowflakeFile.newInstance(file_url);
    InputStream is = sfFile.getInputStream();
    ```

    Files read by handler code may be on an external stage or on a user or named internal stage.

Currently:
:   When Java code in a UDF handler reads a file from a stage, it will do so using the owner’s context.

    For both UDFs and procedures, a caller must pass the file’s location in a scoped URL by using the [BUILD_SCOPED_FILE_URL](../../../sql-reference/functions/build_scoped_file_url.md) function, as in the following function example:

    `select my_func(build_scoped_file_url(@my_stage, 'filename.txt'));`

    Handler code receives the scoped URL and reads the file as before.

    ```java
    SnowflakeFile sfFile = SnowflakeFile.newInstance(scopedFileUrl);
    InputStream is = sfFile.getInputStream();
    ```

    For files whose locations are specified within handler code (not as scoped URLs passed in by a caller), you can read the staged file in one of two ways: handler code can call the newInstance method with a boolean value for a new requireScopedUrl parameter; or handler code must use a scoped URL when creating an InputStream from the file path.

    The following example uses `SnowflakeFile.newInstance`:

    ```java
    String filename = "@my_stage/filename.txt";
    SnowflakeFile sfFile = SnowflakeFile.newInstance(filename, require_scoped_url = false);
    ```

    In addition, user stages are no longer supported as locations for files read by a handler. Files read by handler code must be on an
    external stage or on a named internal stage.

Ref: 1008
