# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_05/bcr-1110.md

# EXTRACT_SEMANTIC_CATEGORIES Function: International Tag Values

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_05 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_05_bundle.md).

The [EXTRACT_SEMANTIC_CATEGORIES](../../../sql-reference/functions/extract_semantic_categories.md) function behaves as follows:

Previously:
:   The output of the function takes the following form:

    > ```sqljson
    > {
    >     "<col1_name>": {
    >     "extra_info" : {
    >         "alternates" : [<semantic_categories>],
    >         "probability" : "<number>"
    >     },
    >     "privacy_category" : "<value>",
    >     "semantic_category" : "<value>"
    >     },
    > ...
    > ...
    >     "<colN_name>": {
    >     "extra_info" : {
    >         "alternates" : [<semantic_categories>],
    >         "probability" : "<number>"
    >     },
    >     "privacy_category" : "<value>",
    >     "semantic_category" : "<value>"
    >     }
    > }
    > ```

Currently:
:   The output of the function will change in its formatting, and the output will include support for SEMANTIC_CATEGORY tag values
    that pertain to Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States. To support these countries, the tag values correspond to
    certain *parent category groups*. A parent category contains information about the classification result, including whether the column
    consists of values largely from one country or another.

    The formatting changes are:

    * Remove the `extra_info` and `probability` fields.
    * Move the `alternates` field to a different position in the output.
    * Add these new fields:

      + `valid_value_ratio`, which specifies the ratio of valid values in the sample size. Invalid values include NULL, an empty string,
        and a string with more than 256 characters.
      + `recommendation`, which includes information about each tag and value.
      + `confidence`, where the possible values are either `HIGH`, `MEDIUM`, or `LOW`.
      + `coverage`, which indicates the percent of sampled cell values that match the rules for a particular category.
      + `details`, which contains fields and values that can specify a geographical tag value for the SEMANTIC_CATEGORY tag.

    For example:

    ```sqljson
    {
      "valid_value_ratio": 1.0,
      "recommendation": {
        "semantic_category": "PASSPORT",
        "privacy_category": "IDENTIFIER",
        "confidence": "HIGH",
        "coverage": 0.7,
        "details": [
          {
            "semantic_category": "US_PASSPORT",
            "coverage": 0.7
          },
          {
            "semantic_category": "CA_PASSPORT",
            "coverage": 0.1
          }
        ]
      },
      "alternates": [
        {
          "semantic_category": "NATIONAL_IDENTIFIER",
          "privacy_category": "IDENTIFIER",
          "confidence": "LOW",
          "coverage": 0.3,
          "details": [
            {
              "semantic_category": "US_SSN",
              "privacy_category": "IDENTIFIER",
              "coverage": 0.3
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

    The following table summarizes the relationship between the classification tags, new category groups and group members, and
    supported countries. The country codes are based on the [ISO-3166-1 alpha-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2)
    standard. Other semantic categories, such as EMAIL and GENDER, are not affected.

    > | PRIVACY_CATEGORY Tag Values | SEMANTIC_CATEGORY Tag Values (Parent Group) | Group Members | Country Code |
    > | --- | --- | --- | --- |
    > | `IDENTIFIER` | `BANK_ACCOUNT` | `CA_BANK_ACCOUNT` . `US_BANK_ACCOUNT` . `IBAN` | CA . US |
    > |  | `ORGANIZATION_IDENTIFIER` | `AU_BUSINESS_NUMBER` . `AU_COMPANY_NUMBER` | AU |
    > |  | `DRIVERS_LICENSE` | `AU_DRIVERS_LICENSE` . `CA_DRIVERS_LICENSE` . `US_DRIVERS_LICENSE` | AU . CA . US |
    > |  | `MEDICARE_NUMBER` | `AU_MEDICARE_NUMBER` | AU |
    > |  | `PASSPORT` | `AU_PASSPORT` . `CA_PASSPORT` . `US_PASSPORT` | AU . CA . US |
    > |  | `PHONE_NUMBER` | `AU_PHONE_NUMBER` . `CA_PHONE_NUMBER` . `UK_PHONE_NUMBER` . `US_PHONE_NUMBER` | AU . CA . GB . US |
    > |  | `STREET_ADDRESS` | `CA_STREET_ADDRESS` . `US_STREET_ADDRESS` | CA . US |
    > |  | `TAX_IDENTIFIER` | `AU_TAX_NUMBER` | AU |
    > |  | `NATIONAL_IDENTIFIER` | `CA_SOCIAL_INSURANCE_NUMBER` . `UK_NATIONAL_INSURANCE_NUMBER` . `US_SSN` | CA . GB . US |
    > | `QUASI_IDENTIFIER` | `CITY` | `US_CITY` . `CA_CITY` . | US . CA . |
    > |  | `POSTAL_CODE` | `AU_POSTAL_CODE` . `CA_POSTAL_CODE` . `UK_POSTAL_CODE` . `US_POSTAL_CODE` | AU . CA . GB . US |
    > |  | `ADMINISTRATIVE_AREA_1` | `CA_PROVINCE_OR_TERRITORY` . `US_STATE_OR_TERRITORY` | CA . US |
    > |  | `ADMINISTRATIVE_AREA_2` | `US_COUNTY` | US |

    The data engineer can use the pending tag values by manually specifying the tag value in the [ALTER TABLE](../../../sql-reference/sql/alter-table.md) or
    [ALTER VIEW](../../../sql-reference/sql/alter-view.md) statement. Alternatively, the data engineer can call the
    [ASSOCIATE_SEMANTIC_CATEGORY_TAGS](../../../sql-reference/stored-procedures/associate_semantic_category_tags.md) stored procedure to set the tag.

    For example, use an ALTER TABLE statement to set the `PASSPORT` tag value on the PASSPORT table column manually.

    ```sqlexample
    ALTER TABLE mydb.myschema.mytable
      MODIFY COLUMN passport
      SET TAG SNOWFLAKE.CORE.SEMANTIC_CATEGORY = 'PASSPORT';
    ```

    There are no changes to the overall classification process or the
    steps to classify a table, all tables in a schema, or all tables in a database.

    > **Tip:**
    >
    > If you pass the EXTRACT_SEMANTIC_CATEGORIES function as an argument to the ASSOCIATE_SEMANTIC_CATEGORY_TAGS stored procedure, be sure
    > to double-check any custom handling that you might have configured to ensure that your workflows do not break due to the pending
    > formatting changes.

Ref: 1110
