# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2025_01/bcr-1857.md

# Update the default Streamlit version for Snowflake Native Apps

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2025_01 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2025_01_bundle.md).

When this behavior change bundle is enabled, the default version of a Streamlit used by the Snowflake Native App Framework will be updated
to Streamlit version 1.35.

Before this change:
:   The default version of Streamlit used by a Snowflake Native App is version 1.22

After this change:
:   The default version of Streamlit used by a Snowflake Native App is version 1.35

This change only affects apps that do not define a specific Streamlit version. If a provider uses the
`environment.yml` file to control dependency versions, the Streamlit version used by an app can be
pinned to a specific version by setting `streamlit=1.22.0`. If a version is not specified in the
`environment.yml` file, then the default version of Streamlit is used.

This change only affects new versions or patches of an app. Existing apps will continue to work on either the previous
default Streamlit version (1.22) or the version specified in the `environment.yml` file of the app.

This change only affects Streamlit apps used within a Snowflake Native App. Streamlit apps outside of an app are
not affected. The default version for Streamlit in Snowflake was already updated to Streamlit version 1.35.

## Test the new version of Streamlit in your app

If you plan to use Streamlit 1.35, ensure that you test your app to verify that it is compatible with this version:

> 1. Update the Streamlit version in the `environment.yml` file of the app to 1.35. Do not make any other changes.
> 2. Install the app.
> 3. Test the Streamlit app and make any necessary changes to the Streamlit python source files.

If you discover any issues with the updated version, you can specify the previous version of Streamlit in the
`environment.yml` file.

Ref: 1857
