# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/un-bundled/bcr-1995.md

# Snowpark Python: Eliminate repeated subqueries in Snowpark-generated queries (Canceled)

> **Attention:**
>
> This BCR is canceled and removed from the [2025_04 Bundle](../2025_04_bundle.md).

Repeated subquery elimination identifies identical sub-DataFrames within a query plan and employs Common Table Expressions (CTEs) to
construct the final query. Almost half of the queries with compilation times exceeding one second contain at least one redundant subquery.
The benefit of this optimization scales with the quantity and complexity of the identified duplicate subqueries.

* Diagnostic steps:

  * SQL compilation error on a Snowpark data pipeline that was running with no errors previously.
  * Wrong results generated due to bugs in SQL generation.
* Mitigation:

  * Downgrading to an older version of Snowpark client mitigates the issue.
  * Unsetting parameter `PYTHON_SNOWPARK_USE_CTE_OPTIMIZATION_VERSION` mitigates the issue.

    To be unaffected by this change, keep Snowpark-based workflows pinned to a Snowpark Python version that is lower than 1.31.1. For example, if you are using a Python stored procedure, set `PACKAGES=('snowflake-snowpark-python==1.30.0')` when creating the stored procedure. In the case of a Snowflake Notebook or Python worksheet, switch to a Snowpark Python version lower than 1.31.1.

To demonstrate the difference between old and new behavior, consider the following DataFrame transformations in Snowpark Python:

```python
df = session.table("test_table")
df1 = df.with_column("a", F.col("A") + 1).filter(df.a > 1)
df1 = df1.union_all(df1)

print(df1.queries["queries"][0])
```

Before the change:
:   Because the `union_all` above is using the same DataFrame `df1` twice, the generated SQL queries will repeat the underlying subquery twice:

    ```sqlexample
    ( SELECT * FROM ( SELECT "B", "C", ( "A" + 1 ) AS "A" FROM test_table )
      WHERE ( "A" > 1 ) )
    UNION ALL
    ( SELECT * FROM ( SELECT "B", "C", ( "A" + 1 ) AS "A" FROM test_table )
      WHERE ( "A" > 1 ) )
    ```

After the change:
:   The optimization will detect that `df1` is being used twice, will replace the subquery with a CTE expression, and then use that to build the query:

    ```sqlexample
    WITH SNOWPARK_TEMP_CTE_7G3ZFVJYBK AS
      ( SELECT * FROM ( SELECT "B", "C", ( "A" + 1 ) AS "A" FROM test_table )
          WHERE ( "A" > 1 ) ) ( SELECT * FROM ( SNOWPARK_TEMP_CTE_7G3ZFVJYBK ) )
      UNION ALL
      ( SELECT * FROM ( SNOWPARK_TEMP_CTE_7G3ZFVJYBK ) )
    ```

Ref: 1995
