# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_04/bcr-1572.md

# SHOW TABLES command, TABLES view, and GET_DDL command: Changes related to the READ ONLY property for tables

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_04 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_04_bundle.md).

When this behavior change bundle is enabled, you can create tables with a new READ ONLY property. New output related
to this property is added when you run the SHOW TABLES command, query the TABLES view, or run the GET_DDL command.

## SHOW TABLES command: New is_immutable column

A new column is added to the output of the [SHOW TABLES](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-tables.md) command.

Before the change:
:   The output of the SHOW TABLES command does not include an `is_immutable` column.

After the change:
:   The output of the SHOW TABLES command includes an `is_immutable` column.

    | Column name | Description |
    | --- | --- |
    | `is_immutable` | `Y` if the table was created with the READ ONLY property; `N` otherwise. |

## TABLES view (Information Schema): New IS_IMMUTABLE column

A new column is added to the [TABLES view](../../../sql-reference/info-schema/tables.md).

Before the change:
:   The TABLES view does not include an IS_IMMUTABLE column.

After the change:
:   The TABLES view includes an IS_IMMUTABLE column.

    | Column name | Data type | Description |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    | IS_IMMUTABLE | TEXT | Indicates whether the table was created with the READ ONLY property. Valid values are `YES` or `NO`. |

> **Note:**
>
> The ACCOUNT_USAGE.TABLES view will not include the IS_IMMUTABLE column because temporary tables are not reported
> in this view.

## The GET_DDL command returns output for tables created with the READ ONLY property

The [GET_DDL](../../../sql-reference/functions/get_ddl.md) command returns the following output for tables that were created
with the READ ONLY property:

```output
CREATE OR REPLACE TEMPORARY READ ONLY TABLE <table_name> CLONE <src_table_name>
```

Ref: 1572
