# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_04/bcr-1080.md

# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_05/bcr-1080.md

# SHOW Commands: Pagination Support

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_05 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_05_bundle.md).

In the current release, the behavior of these commands changes as follows:

* [SHOW APPLICATION ROLES](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-application-roles.md)
* [SHOW DATABASE ROLES](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-database-roles.md)
* [SHOW GRANTS](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-grants.md)
* [SHOW ROLES](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-roles.md)

Previously:
:   These commands do not support limiting the row output or pagination of the results.

Currently:
:   These commands support pagination of the output using a LIMIT … FROM clause:

    > * [SHOW APPLICATION ROLES](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-application-roles.md)
    > * [SHOW DATABASE ROLES](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-database-roles.md)
    > * [SHOW ROLES](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-roles.md)

    ```sqlsyntax
    SHOW <domain_plural> [ LIMIT <rows> [ FROM '<name_string>' ] ]
    ```

    The SHOW GRANTS command only supports the LIMIT clause. For example:

    ```sqlsyntax
    SHOW GRANTS [ LIMIT <rows> ]
    ```

    Where:

    > `domain_plural`
    > :   Use one of the following plural forms of the object domain:
    >
    >     > * `APPLICATION ROLES`
    >     > * `DATABASE ROLES`
    >     > * `ROLES`
    >
    > `LIMIT rows [ FROM 'name_string' ]`
    > :   Optionally limits the maximum number of rows returned, while also enabling “pagination” of the results. The actual number of rows
    >     returned night be less than the specified limit (e.g. the number of existing objects is less than the specified limit).
    >
    >     The optional `FROM 'name_string'` subclause effectively serves as a “cursor” for the results. This enables fetching the
    >     specified number of rows following the first row whose object name matches the specified string:
    >
    >     The string must be enclosed in single quotes and is case-sensitive. In addition, the string does not have to include the full
    >     object name; partial names are supported.
    >
    > Default: No value (no limit is applied to the output).
    >
    > For example:
    >
    > > ```sqlexample
    > > SHOW APPLICATION ROLES IN APPLICATION myapp LIMIT 10 FROM 'app_role2';
    > > ```
    >
    > The statement returns up to ten application roles in the application named `myapp` after the first application role named
    > `app_role2`.

Ref: 1080
