# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/collaboration/consumer-listings-paying.md

# Pay for listings

Before making a purchase on Snowflake Marketplace, use the topics on this page to learn how to make and manage your purchases on Snowflake Marketplace.
If you want to request trial access before making a purchase,
see [Explore listings](consumer-listings-exploring.md).

> **Note:**
>
> If you are a value-added reseller (VAR) that wants to purchase paid listings, use this form to [submit a case with Marketplace Operations](https://snowforce.my.site.com/s/provider-onboarding-case). You only need to file one case to cover both purchasing and offering listings.

## Supported consumer locations

To access paid listings as a consumer, the billing address registered to your account must be in one of the following countries:

* Australia
* Austria
* Belgium
* Bermuda
* Canada
* Cayman Islands
* Colombia
* Czech Republic
* Denmark
* Finland
* France
* Germany
* India
* Ireland
* Israel
* Italy
* Japan
* Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
* Luxembourg
* Mexico
* Netherlands
* New Zealand
* Norway
* Poland
* Portugal
* Singapore
* South Korea
* Sweden
* Switzerland
* United Arab Emirates
* United Kingdom
* United States

## Usage rules for all consumers

The following statements apply to all organizations that make one or more purchases:

* Any organization can pay for listings by using any of the accepted payment methods.
* All purchases are billed in US dollars.
* Taxes are calculated based on your organization’s shipping and billing addresses.
  This applies even if your organization has multiple locations or is international.

> **Note:**
>
> Snowflake does not support multiple billing entities for a single organization.

## Accept the combined Snowflake Provider and Consumer Terms

Before you purchase anything in the Snowflake Marketplace, an organization administrator needs to accept the combined
[Snowflake Provider and Consumer Terms](https://other-docs.snowflake.com/en/collaboration/consumer-becoming#label-collaboration-consumer-terms). To learn more about organizations, see [Working with organizations and accounts](../guides-overview-manage.md).

> **Note:**
>
> If your organization intends to access only free listings, and you’ve accepted the [Snowflake Customer-Controlled Data Sharing Functionality Terms](https://www.snowflake.com/legal/data-sharing-terms/), you do not need to accept the Snowflake Provider and Consumer Terms.

1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md).
2. To switch to the organization administrator role, in the lower-left corner, select your name » Switch role » ORGADMIN.
3. In the navigation menu, select Admin » Terms.
4. In the Snowflake Marketplace section, review your existing terms.
5. Select Review. The terms and conditions dialog opens.
6. If you agree to the terms, select Accept Terms & Conditions.

> **Note:**
>
> If you see an error, your user profile might be missing some contact information. If you have an administrator role, see
> [Add user details to your user profile](../user-guide/ui-snowsight-profile.md) to update your profile using Snowsight. Otherwise, contact an
> account administrator to update your user details.

## About billing for listings and data products

To understand how and when you’re billed, it can be helpful to know how Snowflake bills, what usage is billable, and how pricing models
can change your bill. When you purchase a listing, you receive a Snowflake Marketplace invoice. Snowflake Marketplace invoices are
separate from invoices for other Snowflake services, storage, or usage.
For Snowflake Marketplace billing, Snowflake uses an online payment processing service called [Stripe](https://stripe.com/).
As part of enabling your account to purchase listings, a payment account is automatically generated by Stripe, specifically to process
the payment. This is not the same as a Stripe account you might use to conduct your own business; instead, this account is
managed by Snowflake.

Snowflake Marketplace generates an invoice that enables you to pay using any of the supported payment methods. If your automatic monthly
payment fails, an email notification is sent notifying you of the payment failure. The email notification includes instructions for resolving the payment failure.

> **Note:**
>
> Snowflake Marketplace charges fall within a minimum and maximum amount as defined by the online payment processing service.
> This is explained in [Minimum and maximum charge amounts in the Stripe documentation](https://docs.stripe.com/currencies#minimum-and-maximum-charge-amounts). Only the information for US Dollars (USD)
> applies.

### Billing by pricing model

Each listing can have different pricing plans and each pricing plan bills in a different way:

* For [usage-based pricing plans](provider-listings-pricing-model.md),
  Snowflake invoices your account only for the months when you actually use a paid
  listing. If there is no billable event activity or user queries made on paid data,
  no invoices are generated.
* For [subscription-based pricing plans](provider-listings-pricing-model.md),
  billing can vary based on the plan.
  Snowflake invoices your account at the beginning of each billing term or access period.

For more information about pricing models, see [Paid listings pricing models](provider-listings-pricing-model.md).

### Billing by usage

For a usage-based plan, you’re billed for queries that access paid data within a share, even if the query returns no results.
For example, if a query scans a set of paid data but filters out every row in the results, it’s still counted as usage.

You incur charges when you interact with paid data, for example by using SELECT statements or DML statements (such as INSERT, MERGE).
You don’t incur charges running DDL statements unless you interact with data in a DDL statement,
for example by using CREATE TABLE AS SELECT.

While usage for listings is tracked daily — allowing you to monitor your consumption in real time — billing is processed monthly.
You can use the Snowflake dashboards to view your usage at any time, but usage charges are summed up
and reflected in the monthly invoice.

Some listings might include serverless features, which are billed based on compute resources consumed.
For more information about serverless feature billing, please refer to your contract or the Snowflake documentation.

## Pay for monetized listings

Invoices for monetized listings are sent to the billing email address that was provided to Snowflake. Invoices include information about the paid listing and the amount owed including all applicable taxes and fees.

When Snowflake adjusts the amount owed in an invoice, and it benefits a consumer, Snowflake issues a credit note to the consumer’s organization. When a consumer requests the cancelation and rebill of an invoice, Snowflake issues a credit note to the consumer’s organization and then reissues the invoice.

### Payment methods

Snowflake supports a variety of payment methods, including credit card, bank transfer, and Marketplace Capacity Drawdown Program funds.

The first payment method you set up is used as your default, unless you choose another supported payment method at the time of purchase. You can choose a different method for each purchase.

To set up a payment method, use the organization administrator (ORGADMIN) role, and follow the instructions for the appropriate billing method.

### Pay for listings with Snowflake Marketplace Capacity Drawdown Program funds

When you purchase a listing, the payment method defaults to MCD if this payment method is available for that
listing. If the listing is not MCD-compatible or if you don’t want to use MCD for this purchase, you can
complete your purchase by using a different payment method.

For more information about MCD, see [About committed capacity and Snowflake Marketplace Capacity Drawdown](marketplace-capacity-drawdown.md).

### Pay for listings with a credit card or a bank transfer

You can use one of the following payment methods to purchase listings:

* Credit card
* Bank transfer

If your organization selected a credit card as the payment method for paid listings when the listing was purchased, the credit card is automatically charged at the interval defined in the payment schedule.

When you first pay for a listing, the payment method you select is used for the period you access the listing. To change a listing payment method, see [Modify your listing payment method](consumer-listings-access.md).

### Activate an account

Before you can add a payment method, you need to activate your consumer account.

1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md).
2. In the navigation menu, select Admin » Billing.
3. Click the Marketplace billing tab.
4. Click Consumer billing.
5. Click Activate account.

### Add a new credit card

Snowflake uses [Stripe](https://stripe.com/) to process Snowflake Marketplace payments. If you haven’t previously activated your consumer account on Stripe, you’ll be asked to activate your consumer account before the new credit card payment method is available.

1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md).
2. In the navigation menu, select Admin » Billing.
3. Select the Marketplace billing tab.
4. Expand Payment methods and click Add credit card.
5. Complete the following fields:

   * Payment method display name: Optional. Enter a name for the payment method.
   * Card number: Enter the credit card number.
   * Expiration date: Enter the credit card expiration date.
   * CVC: Enter the credit card Card Verification Code (CVC). This is the three or four-digit security verification code printed on your credit card.
   * Full name: Enter the name of the credit card owner as it appears on the credit card.
   * Country or region: Select the credit card billing country.
   * Address line 1: Enter the address where credit card billing information should be sent.
   * Address line 2: Enter additional address information for credit card billing.
   * City: Enter the credit card billing city.
   * State/Province: Enter the credit card billing state or province.
   * ZIP/Postal code: Enter the credit card ZIP or postal code.
6. Click Add card.

   If there are issues with the credit card you added, a status messages appears within the tile for the credit card on the Marketplace billing tab.

### Delete a payment method

1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md).
2. In the navigation menu, select Admin » Billing.
3. Select the Marketplace billing tab.
4. Click Consumer billing.
5. Expand Payment methods and then select a payment method.
6. Click Delete.
7. Click Delete.

### Virtual bank account number confirmation

Snowflake accounts receivable includes a virtual bank account number (VBAN) confirmation as an attachment with your Snowflake Marketplace invoice. The VBAN is provisioned by Stripe and allows Snowflake to accept bank transfers from your organization.

## Manage your invoices

Consumers can view, download, and pay invoices in [Snowsight](../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md). To access invoice information, the ACCOUNTADMIN role or the PURCHASE DATA EXCHANGE LISTING and IMPORTED PRIVILEGES privileges are required.

To grant privileges to a role as an ACCOUNTADMIN, see [Granting the IMPORTED PRIVILEGES privilege to other roles](../user-guide/data-exchange-marketplace-privileges.md).

To learn more about the PURCHASE DATA EXCHANGE LISTING privilege, see [PURCHASE DATA EXCHANGE LISTING privilege](../user-guide/data-exchange-marketplace-privileges.md).

### View all Snowflake Marketplace invoices

1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md).
2. In the navigation menu, select Admin » Billing.
3. Select the Marketplace billing tab.
4. Click Consumer billing.

   All invoices appear in the Marketplace invoices section. You can optionally sort your invoices by status, amount, invoice date, and due date.

### View Snowflake Marketplace invoice information

> 1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md).
> 2. In the navigation menu, select Admin » Billing.
> 3. Select the Marketplace billing tab.
> 4. Click Consumer billing.
> 5. Select an invoice in the Marketplace invoices list.
> 6. Optional. To download a PDF version of the invoice, select Download PDF .

### Pay a Snowflake Marketplace invoice

1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md).
2. In the navigation menu, select Admin » Billing.
3. Select the Marketplace billing tab.
4. Click Consumer billing.
5. Select an invoice in the Marketplace invoices list.
6. Select Make a payment.

## Manage your purchases

Learn how to manage or cancel payments, control access, or get support from the provider.

To monitor your usage of paid listings, see the following usage views:

* [MONETIZED_USAGE_DAILY (DATA_SHARING_USAGE) View](views/monetized-usage-daily-ds.md) in the
  [DATA_SHARING_USAGE](../sql-reference/data-sharing-usage.md) schema. (Usage at the account level)
* [MONETIZED_USAGE_DAILY (ORGANIZATION_USAGE) View](views/monetized-usage-daily-org.md) in the
  [ORGANIZATION_USAGE](../sql-reference/organization-usage.md) schema. (Usage at the organization level)

### Manage access to your purchases

Use the following access control privilege to control access to paid listings.

| Privilege | Object | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| PURCHASE DATA EXCHANGE LISTING | Account (that is, global privilege) | Grants ability to create a database from a paid listing that enables querying all data (paid and trial) in the database or application. Must be granted by the ACCOUNTADMIN role. |

### Contact the provider for support

You should always contact the provider of the listing directly, before contacting Snowflake. Use the support email identified in the
listing. Examples include cases where you need to do one of the following:

* Request a refund
* Report an issue with a product listing

If your issue remains unresolved, you can report it by filing a case with Marketplace Operations:
[Report an issue with a Data Marketplace Listing or Provider](https://snowflakecommunity.force.com/s/consumer-reporting).

### Cancel a purchase

To cancel access to a purchase, you need to use one of the following roles:

> * The account administrator role (ACCOUNTADMIN)
> * A role with the OWNERSHIP privilege granted on the database created from a listing

1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md).
2. To switch to the account administrator role, in the lower-left corner, select your name » Switch role » ACCOUNTADMIN.
   You can use a custom role if the role has the requisite privileges.
3. In the navigation menu, select Marketplace » Snowflake Marketplace.
4. Select the purchase that you want to cancel.
5. On the page that opens, select Manage Purchase » Cancel Purchase.
6. Review the cancellation date so that you can verify when your access ends.
7. Confirm your choice to cancel.
