# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/native-apps/event-old.md

# Previous logging and event sharing functionality — *Deprecated*

This topic describes the deprecated method for setting up logging and event sharing before the
introduction of event definitions.

Providers who are setting up logging and event sharing should use the method described in [Use logging and event tracing for an app](event-about.md).
See [Considerations when migrating from the previous event sharing functionality](event-about.md) for information about migrating from the deprecated
to the new logging and event sharing functionality.

> **Warning:**
>
> The process for setting up logging and event sharing described in this topic will be deprecated
> in a future release.

## Previous logging and event sharing functionality

This topic provides information on setting up logging and event sharing as a provider. Refer to
[Enabling Logging and Event Sharing for an app](https://other-docs.snowflake.com/en/native-apps/consumer-enable-logging)
for the consumer requirements for configuring this feature.

Logging and trace events allow you to collect information about an app to troubleshoot errors. Using logging and trace events,
you can also get a better idea of how your app runs and improve your app later.

## Workflow for setting up logging and event sharing as a provider

As a provider, you can set up logging and event sharing for an app by performing the following:

1. Review the considerations for using logging and event sharing.
2. Configure logging and trace events for functions and stored procedures.
3. Set the log and trace level in the manifest file.
4. Configure an account to store shared events.

After the consumer installs an app and enables logging and event sharing, you can view logging and event information shared by the application:

* View the log and trace level.
* [View the logs and events in the event table](event-manage-provider.md).

## Considerations for using logging and event sharing

Before using logging and event sharing for an app, providers must consider the following:

* Providers are responsible for all costs associated with event sharing on the provider side, including data
  ingestion and storage.
* Providers must have [an account to store shared events](event-manage-provider.md)
  in each region where you want to support event sharing.
* Providers must define the default log level and trace level for an app in the manifest file.

> **Note:**
>
> Event sharing cannot be enabled for an app that is installed in the same account as the application package
> it is based on. To test event sharing for an app, a provider must use multiple accounts.

## Configure logging and trace events in functions and procedures

The Native Apps Framework requires an event table to store log messages and trace events generated from
functions and stored procedures in an app.

> **Note:**
>
> If the consumer of an app does not set up an event table and make it the active table
> before installing the app, event and logging data are discarded.

An account can have multiple event tables, but only one of them can be set as the active event table for a
Snowflake account at a time. Without an active event table, log messages and trace events generated by the
app are not captured. This is true even if the functions and procedures in an app call the logging
and trace event APIs.

To create an event table, use the [CREATE EVENT TABLE](../../sql-reference/sql/create-event-table.md) command. For more information, see
[Event table overview](../logging-tracing/event-table-setting-up.md).

After code has recorded log messages and trace events, a provider can query recorded data.

For information about recording and querying log and trace data, see the following:

* [Logging messages from functions and procedures](../logging-tracing/logging.md).
* [Trace events for functions and procedures](../logging-tracing/tracing.md).

## Set the log and trace level in the manifest file

To set the default log and trace event levels for a version of an app, set the
`log_level`, `trace_level`, and `metric_level` parameters in the manifest file as shown in the following example:

```yaml
artifacts:
  setup_script: setup.sql
configuration:
  trace_level: OFF
  log_level: DEBUG
```

When a provider enables tracing, a Snowflake Native App automatically captures the start and end
times for all queries and stored procedure calls.

> **Note:**
>
> Publishing a Snowflake Native App with the `trace_level` property set to a value other than `OFF`
> might expose calls to hidden stored procedures to any user in the consumer account who can view
> the event table.

For information on supported values for `trace_level`, `log_level`, and `metric_level`, see
[Setting levels for logging, metrics, and tracing](../logging-tracing/telemetry-levels.md) and [Setting levels for logging, metrics, and tracing](../logging-tracing/telemetry-levels.md).

When the Snowflake Native App is initially installed, it uses the log levels defined in the manifest file. If the log
level is changed in a subsequent upgrade, the new log level takes effect after the upgrade process completes.

The log and trace level can only be set within the manifest file. The consumer is not allowed to modify the log level using the
[ALTER APPLICATION](../../sql-reference/sql/alter-application.md) or [ALTER DATABASE](../../sql-reference/sql/alter-database.md) commands.

Similarly, any session level settings for the logging level are ignored by the app.

## Configure an account to store shared events

To store shared logs and events, a provider must select an account to hold an event table. This can be any
account that a provider can access. However, if an organization has multiple providers publishing
app packages, consider using a Snowflake account that is dedicated to storing shared events from the
consumer.

The following restrictions apply to accounts used to store shared events:

* You must use an [organization administrator role](../../user-guide/organization-administrators.md) to set an account as the account used
  to store events.
* The account must have an active event table.
* The specified account cannot be any of the following:

  * A locked or suspended account.
  * A reader account.
  * A trial account.
  * A Snowflake managed account.

> **Note:**
>
> A provider can collect logs and shared events only in the same region where a consumer installs an app.
> Providers must set up an account to store shared events in every region where consumers configure event
> sharing for an app.

### Set an account as the events account

To set an account to be the events account for a region, call the SYSTEM$SET_EVENT_SHARING_ACCOUNT_FOR_REGION system function:

```sqlsyntax
CALL SYSTEM$SET_EVENT_SHARING_ACCOUNT_FOR_REGION('<snowflake_region>', '<region_group>', '<account_name>')
```

Where:

`snowflake_region`
:   Specifies the region where the account is located, for example: `AWS_US_WEST_2, AWS_US_EAST_1`.

`region_group`
:   Specifies the region group, for example: `PUBLIC`. Refer to
    [Region groups](../../user-guide/admin-account-identifier.md) for details.

`account_name`
:   Specifies the account name. If another account is already set as the events account in the
    specified region, running this command changes the events account to be the account
    specified here. Always use the account name and not the Snowflake account identifier.

> **Note:**
>
> You must use an [organization administrator role](../../user-guide/organization-administrators.md) to call this function.

### Un-set an account as the events account

To unset an account to be the events account for a region, call the SYSTEM$UNSET_EVENT_SHARING_ACCOUNT_FOR_REGION system function:

```sqlsyntax
CALL SYSTEM$UNSET_EVENT_SHARING_ACCOUNT_FOR_REGION('<snowflake_region>', '<region_group>', '<account_name>')
```

Where:

`snowflake_region`
:   Specifies the region where the account is located, for example: `AWS_US_WEST_2, AWS_US_EAST_1`.

`region_group`
:   Specifies the region group, for example: `PUBLIC`.

`account_name`
:   Specifies the account name. Always use the account name and not the Snowflake account identifier.

> **Note:**
>
> You must use an [organization administrator role](../../user-guide/organization-administrators.md) to call this function.

### View event accounts in the provider’s organization

To show events accounts in a provider’s organization, call the SYSTEM$SHOW_EVENT_SHARING_ACCOUNTS system function:

```sqlexample
CALL SYSTEM$SHOW_EVENT_SHARING_ACCOUNTS()
```

> **Note:**
>
> You must use an [organization administrator role](../../user-guide/organization-administrators.md) to call this function.

This system function returns a string in JSON format containing a list of event accounts within the organization.
Because the metadata takes some time to propagate to all regions, this function might experience some delay when
showing latest events account after the user set/unset an events account for the organization.

## View the logging and trace event levels defined for an application package

Use the [DESCRIBE APPLICATION](../../sql-reference/sql/desc-application.md) command to view the logging level of an app, as shown in the
following command:

```sqlexample
DESC APPLICATION HelloSnowflake;
```

Use the [SHOW VERSIONS IN APPLICATION PACKAGE](../../sql-reference/sql/show-versions.md) command to view the logging level the app versions defined in an application
package, as shown in the following example:

```sqlexample
SHOW VERSIONS
  IN APPLICATION PACKAGE HelloSnowflake;
```

## View the logs and events in the event table

To view the logs and events stored in the event table, use the [SELECT](../../sql-reference/sql/select.md) command as shown
in the following example:

```sqlexample
SELECT * FROM EVENT_DB.EVENT_SCHEMA.MY_EVENT_TABLE
```

## Shared event information available to the provider

The following sections describe the information that the Native Apps Framework shares with providers.

### App event context shared with the provider

To help providers easily identify the source of the shared events, the following fields are populated into the
`RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES` column of the event table when they are shared with the provider:

* snow.application.package.name
* snow.application.consumer.organization
* snow.application.consumer.name
* snow.listing.name
* snow.listing.global_name

### Fields that are not shared with the provider

To protect consumer information, the following fields from the `RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES` column are
not shared with provider:

* snow.database.id
* snow.database.name
* snow.schema.id
* snow.executable.id
* snow.owner.name
* snow.owner.id
* snow.warehouse.name
* snow.warehouse.id
* snow.query.id
* snow.session.id
* snow.session.role.primary.name
* snow.session.role.primary.id
* snow.user.name
* snow.user.id
* db.user

Instead of directly sharing the `snow.database.name` and `snow.query.id` fields with the provider, Snowflake
shares the hash values (SHA-1) of these two fields as the following fields:

* snow.database.hash
* snow.query.hash

Snowflake provides the [SHA-1 function](../../sql-reference/functions/sha1.md) used to mask these attributes.
Consumers can calculate the hash values for the database name and query id, and use them as reference values when
contacting the provider.

## Determine if event sharing is enabled in the consumer account

In some contexts, a provider may need to determine if event sharing has been enabled in a consumer
account. For example, a provider may need to disable app functionality if the event table is not
available.

To determine if event sharing is enabled in a consumer account, providers can call the following
system functions when defining the app logic:

* IS_APPLICATION_SHARING_EVENTS_WITH_PROVIDER

  Returns TRUE if the app enables event sharing and an active event table is available in the consumer
  account. Returns FALSE, otherwise.
* IS_APPLICATION_INSTALLED_FROM_SAME_ACCOUNT

  Returns TRUE if the app was installed in the same account as the application package it is based on.
  Returns FALSE otherwise.

> **Note:**
>
> These system functions can only be called from within an app. See
> Determine if event sharing is enabled using the Python Permission SDK and
> Determine if event sharing is enabled using SQL

### Determine if event sharing is enabled using the Python Permission SDK

The Python Permission SDK provides the following functions to determine if even sharing is enabled in
a consumer account:

* `is_event_sharing_enabled()`

  Returns TRUE if the SHARE_EVENTS_WITH_PROVIDER property is true and the consumer account has
  an active event table configured. Returns FALSE, otherwise.
* `is_application_local_to_package()`

  Returns TRUE if the app is in the same account as the application package. Returns FALSE,
  otherwise.

### Determine if event sharing is enabled using SQL

The following example shows how to call a stored procedure when event sharing is
enabled in the consumer account.

Consider the following SQL stored procedure that creates a function to calculate the sum of
two numbers:

```sqlexample
CREATE OR ALTER VERSIONED SCHEMA app_schema;

CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE app_schema.hidden_sum(num1 float, num2 float)
RETURNS FLOAT
LANGUAGE SQL
EXECUTE AS OWNER
AS $$
  DECLARE
    SUM FLOAT;
  BEGIN
    SYSTEM$LOG('INFO', 'CALCULATE THE SUM OF TWO NUMBERS');
    SUM := :NUM1 + :NUM2;
    RETURN SUM;
  END;
$$;
```

When added to the setup script of the app, these SQL commands create the `hidden_sum` stored procedure
in the consumer account when the app is installed. However, this stored procedure is not visible to consumers
because the USAGE privilege is not granted on the stored procedure to an application role.

The following example shows how you can use the values returned by the IS_APPLICATION_SHARING_EVENTS_WITH_PROVIDER
and IS_APPLICATION_INSTALLED_FROM_SAME_ACCOUNT system functions to call the `hidden_sum` stored procedure.

```sqlexample
CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE app_schema.sum(num1 float, num2 float)
RETURNS STRING
LANGUAGE SQL
EXECUTE AS OWNER
AS $$
    BEGIN
      IF (SYSTEM$IS_APPLICATION_INSTALLED_FROM_SAME_ACCOUNT() or SYSTEM$IS_APPLICATION_SHARING_EVENTS_WITH_PROVIDER()) THEN
        CALL APP_SCHEMA.HIDDEN_SUM(:NUM1, :NUM2);
      ELSE
        -- notify consumers that they need to enable event sharing
        RETURN 'Sorry you can\'t access the API, please enable event sharing.';
      END IF;
    END;
$$;

CREATE APPLICATION ROLE IF NOT EXISTS ADMIN_ROLE;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA APP_SCHEMA TO APPLICATION ROLE ADMIN_ROLE;
```

In this example, the `sum` stored procedure tests the values of the
IS_APPLICATION_SHARING_EVENTS_WITH_PROVIDER and IS_APPLICATION_INSTALLED_FROM_SAME_ACCOUNT
stored procedures. If one of their values is `true`, the `sum` stored procedure calls
the `hidden_sum` stored procedure.

## Request the event sharing from consumers using the Python Permission SDK

A provider can use the Python Permission SDK to create a Streamlit app to prompt consumers to enable
event sharing in their account.

The SDK provides the `request_event_sharing()` method that displays a dialog in Snowsight
that prompts the consumer to enable event sharing in their account. If the event table does not
exist in the consumer account, the dialog allows the consumer to set the event table if they are using
the ACCOUNTADMIN role.

## Example: Using the Python Permission SDK with event tables

The following Streamlit example shows how to use the Python Permission SDK to do the following:

* Determine if event sharing is enabled.
* If event sharing is enabled, call the `critical_feature_that_requires_event_sharing()` function.
* If event sharing is not enabled, call the `request_event_sharing()` function to display a dialog in
  Snowsight that prompts the consumer to enable event sharing.

```python
import streamlit as st
import snowflake.permissions as permissions

def critical_feature_that_requires_event_sharing():
  st.write("critical_feature_that_requires_event_sharing")

def main():
  if permissions.is_event_sharing_enabled() or permissions.is_application_local_to_package():
     critical_feature_that_requires_event_sharing()
  else:
     permissions.request_event_sharing()

if __name__ == "__main__":
  main()
```

In this example, the `critical_feature_that_requires_event_sharing()` method is only called if
one of the following is true:

* Event sharing is enabled and the event table exists.
* The Snowflake Native App is installed in the same account as the application package.

If neither condition is true, the Streamlit app calls the `request_event_sharing()` method which
prompts the consumer to select an event table.

For more information, see Determine if event sharing is enabled in the consumer account.
