# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/connectors/postgres6/install-snowsight.md

# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/connectors/mysql6/install-snowsight.md

# Setting up the Snowflake Connector for MySQL using Snowsight

> **Important:**
>
> Thank you for your interest in the Snowflake Connector for MySQL.
> We’re now focused on a next-generation solution that will offer a significantly
> improved experience; therefore, moving this connector to the general availability
> status is currently not on our product roadmap.
> You may continue to use this connector as preview feature, but please note that support for future bug
> fixes and improvements are not guaranteed. The new solution is available as [Openflow Connector for MySQL](../../user-guide/data-integration/openflow/connectors/mysql/about.md) and
> includes better performance, customizability, and enhanced deployment options.

> **Note:**
>
> For accounts where the AUTOCOMMIT parameter set to false, it should be set at the sessions level during configuration to true using the SQL command ALTER SESSION SET AUTOCOMMIT=TRUE.

The process of configuring up the Snowflake Connector for MySQL using Snowsight includes the following steps:

## Configuring Logging for the Connector

The Snowflake Connector for MySQL uses event table to store events and logs generated by the connector code. Setting up an event table is a mandatory step.

> **Note:**
>
> If the event table is already configured for the account used for the connector, skip this step.

To create an event table, do the following:

> ```sqlsyntax
> CREATE EVENT TABLE IF NOT EXISTS <fully_qualified_event_table_name> CHANGE_TRACKING = TRUE;
> ALTER ACCOUNT SET EVENT_TABLE = <fully_qualified_event_table_name>;
> ```
>
> Where:
>
> > `fully_qualified_event_table_name`
> > :   Specifies the name of the event table.

More information about an [event table](../../developer-guide/logging-tracing/event-table-setting-up.md) can be found [here](https://other-docs.snowflake.com/en/native-apps/consumer-enable-logging).

## Installing the Snowflake Connector for MySQL

The following procedure describes how to install the connector:

1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md) as a user with the ACCOUNTADMIN role.
2. In the navigation menu, select Marketplace » Snowflake Marketplace.
3. Search for the Snowflake Connector for MySQL, then select the tile for the connector.
4. In the page for the Snowflake Connector for MySQL, select Get.

   This displays a dialog that you use to begin the initial part of the installation process.

   In the dialog configure the following:

   1. In the Warehouse used for installation field, select the warehouse that you want to use for installing the connector.

      > **Note:**
      >
      > This is not the same warehouse that is used by the connector to synchronize data from MySQL database. In a
      > later step, you will create a separate warehouse for this purpose.
   2. Optionally, under Options » Application name you can change the name of the application.
   3. Select Get.
5. A dialog appears with the notification: `Successfully Installed`. To continue configuration, select Configure.

   The dialog closes, and the Snowflake Connector for MySQL page displays the UI for configuring
   and managing the connector.

### Optional: Installing multiple instances of Snowflake Connector for MySQL

You can install multiple instances of the same connector application on your Snowflake account.

To install an additional application instance, do the following:

1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md).
2. In the navigation menu, select Marketplace » Snowflake Marketplace.
3. Select the application for which you want to install another instance. The application details page appears.
4. Click Add instance. The installation dialog appears.
5. Provide the instance name and select the warehouse to be used during the installation.
6. Select Get to begin the installation process.

Adding connector instances can take several minutes. When the installation process completes, you get an email notification.

> **Attention:**
>
> To avoid ingested data corruption, during connector configuration, always use a database schema that is
> different from all other native applications.

To access your installed connector application instances, do the following:

1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md).
2. In the navigation menu, select Catalog » Apps.
3. Select your application instance to access it.

## Configuring the Snowflake Connector for MySQL

1. Sign in to [Snowsight](../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md) as a user with the ACCOUNTADMIN role.
2. In the navigation menu, select Catalog » Apps.
3. Search for the Snowflake Connector for MySQL, then select it. You will be now moved to the installation wizard page, that will take you through the configuration process.

Configure the application as follows:

### Step 1: Complete prerequisites

Complete the following prerequisite steps to set up your database and agent:

| Step | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Provide access to the source database | [Prerequisites for Snowflake Connector for MySQL datasources](prereqs-datasource.md) |
| Download and install the Agent | [Setting up the Snowflake Connector for MySQL Agent container](install-agent.md) |

Select Mark as done for each completed step.

Select Start configuration.

### Step 2: Configure

In the configuration dialog, enter values for the following fields:

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Compute Warehouse | Identifier for a new, dedicated virtual warehouse for the connector. This warehouse will be used to process data gained from the agent and put them into target table.  Specify a name that is unique for your account. The name of the warehouse must be a valid [object identifier](../../sql-reference/identifiers-syntax.md).  **Note:** Do not specify the same warehouse that you selected at the beginning of the connector installation.  The configuration process creates a new `X-Small` warehouse with the specified name. |
| Operational Warehouse | Identifier for a new, dedicated virtual warehouse for the connector. This warehouse will be used to manage the activities of connector and its agents.  Specify a name that is unique for your account. The name of the warehouse must be a valid [object identifier](../../sql-reference/identifiers-syntax.md).  **Note:** Do not specify the same warehouse that you selected at the beginning of the connector installation.  The configuration process creates a new `X-Small` warehouse with the specified name. |
| Role | Identifier for a new custom role for the agent.  Specify a name that is unique for your account. The name of the role must be a valid [object identifier](../../sql-reference/identifiers-syntax.md).  The configuration process creates a new role with the specified name. |
| User | Identifier for a new user that agent will use to authenticate to Snowflake.  Specify a name that is unique within the selected database. The name of the user must be a valid [object identifier](../../sql-reference/identifiers-syntax.md).  The configuration process creates a new user with the specified name and of type `SERVICE`. |

> **Note:**
>
> By default, the fields are set to the names of objects that are created when you configure the connector.
> Snowflake recommends using new objects for these fields. However, you can specify the names of existing objects,
> if needed (e.g. if you are reinstalling the connector).

Select Configure.

### Step 3: Verify Agent Connection

Check the connection of the agent to Snowflake as follows:

1. Select Generate file to generate initial configuration file for the agent.

   > **Caution:**
   >
   > Every time you click Generate file a new file is generated, with a new set of temporary access keys for the agent’s user. The user is automatically altered to use these new keys for authentication. If you already have the agent running with another set of keys, it will disconnect from Snowflake and stop working.
2. Using the generated `snowflake.json` file, proceed to configure the agent, as described in [Setting up the Snowflake Connector for MySQL Agent container](install-agent.md). Then return to Snowsight.
3. Select Refresh to check connectivity with the agent.
   The application will confirm that the agent is successfully connected, and a confirmation dialog displays.
4. Select Define data to sync to continue.

## Next steps

After completing these procedures, follow the steps in [Setting up the Snowflake Connector for MySQL Agent container](install-agent.md)
