# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/clients-drivers/jdbc-2023.md

# JDBC Driver release notes for 2023

This article contains the release notes for the JDBC Driver, including the following when applicable:

* Behavior changes
* New features
* Customer-facing bug fixes

Snowflake uses semantic versioning for JDBC Driver updates.

See [JDBC Driver](../../developer-guide/jdbc/jdbc.md) for documentation.

## Version 3.14.4 (December 07, 2023)

### BCR (Behavior Change Release) change

* Fixed a security issue with logging related to the `temp` directory:

  * Logging no longer accesses the temp directory.
  * The default `logpath` value changed from the `temp` directory to the `home` directory.

### New features and updates

* None.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a `NullPointerException` that occurred when the `gzipDisabled` property key had no value.
* Fixed an issue where the driver failed on JDK v21 with Arrow.

## Version 3.14.3 (November 07, 2023)

### New features and updates

* Updated the following libraries:

  * org.codehaus.plexus:plexus-archiver from 2.4.4 to 4.8.0
  * org.codehaus.plexus:plexus-archiver from 2.6 to 4.8.0
  * org.bouncycastle:bc-fips from 1.0.2.1 to 1.0.2.4
  * aws-java-sdk to 1.12.501
  * jackson to 2.15.3
  * netty to 4.1.100.Final
  * grpc to 1.59.0
* Added the `enablePutGet` connection property to determine whether to allow PUT and GET commands access to local file systems.
* Added support for managing the frequency of retries for unsuccessful connection requests:

  * Added the `retryTimeout` parameter with a default value of 300 seconds.
  * Updated how the driver uses the `loginTimeout` and `maxHttpRetries` connection parameters and changed the default value of `loginTimeout` to 300 seconds.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue relating to `NoSuchMethodError` when using snowflake-ingest-sdk 2.0.3.
* Fix an issue with handling `NULL` to `DATE` data type conversions.
* Fixed a GCP downscope token issue.

## Version 3.13.34 (October 25, 2023)

### New features and updates

* None.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue relating to failing PUT commands with a GCP Downscope token in `snowflake-jdbc-fips`.

## Version 3.14.2 (October 02, 2023)

### New features and updates

* None.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where the driver did not honor the `useS3RegionUrl` from `JsonNode` in `getStageInfo`.

## Version 3.14.1 (August 24, 2023)

### New features and updates

* Added the ability to send optional headers from the `util` methods.
* Moved `getQueryStatus` function to `SfBaseSession` to support asynchronous calls in stored procedures.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where the driver did not send the entire OSCP URL for private links.

## Version 3.14.0 (July 27, 2023)

### BCR (Behavior Change Release) change

* Fixed an issue where, under certain conditions, the JDBC driver could retry HTTP requests indefinitely.

  > Previously, during an outage the JDBC driver would retry the failed HTTP call continuously until the request
  > succeeds or until someone force kills the operation.
  >
  > With this change, disables infinite HTTP retries originating from `execute` and `executeQuery` calls. Now, the JDBC
  > driver limits HTTP retries to seven, by default. Customers can set the `maxHttpRetries` session parameter to
  > customize the maximum number of retries. Customers can set `maxHttpRetries=0` to remove the retry limit,
  > but doing so runs the risk of the JDBC driver infinitely retrying failed HTTP calls.

### New features and updates

* Added the `CLIENT_OUT_OF_BAND_TELEMETRY_ENABLED` session property to allow you to disable OOB telemetry.
* Improved handling for `locatorsUpdateCopy()` function calls. Now, the driver returns `FALSE` instead of throwing an
  exception.
* Updated handling for 400 Bad Request errors for S3 clients and added the `putGetMaxRetries` connection property to
  configure the maximum number of retries for PUT/GET exceptions for storage clients (default: 7).
* Added support for `httpMaxRetries` in `DefaultResultStreamProvider.getResultChunk()` to improve chunk downloading
  performance.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where the driver incorrectly threw null pointer exceptions (NPEs) when calling `driver.getPropertyInfo()`.
* Fixed an issue where `reader.LoadNextBatch()` would occasionally throw a `ClosedByInterruptException` when reading
  from the arrow stream.
* Fixed an issue where the JDBC driver used the wrong proxy settings for S3 clients.
* Fixed an issue where the `downloadStream()` function disallowed filenames containing Japanese characters.
* Fixed an issue where “~” was not allowed in PUT/GET file paths.
* Fixed an issue where the driver would throw an InvalidPathException when a Windows file path included
  the `file://` prefix for logging configuration files.

## Version 3.13.33 (June 14, 2023)

### New features and updates

* None.

### Bug fixes

* Gracefully handle `MessageFormat.format` exceptions.

## Version 3.13.32 (May 26, 2023)

### New features and updates

* None.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug introduced in 3.13.31 that affects Java Runtime 8.

## Version 3.13.31 (May 25, 2023)

> **Note:**
>
> Please update to newer versions, especially if you see a bug affecting Java Runtime 8.

### New features and updates

* Enhanced hybrid transactional/analytical processing (HTAP).
* Upgraded the `org.apache.httpcomponents:httpclient` library to version 4.5.13 to pick up a security update.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where authentication attempts would time out for chunk download requests.
* Fixed an issue regarding parsing the configuration file on Windows.
* Fixed an int64 overflow issue with large or small `datetime` values.
* Improved the error message shown when a connection aborted due to SSL/TLS errors.
* Fixed an issue where the `getTime()` function returned a time based on the wrong time zone
  when `useSessionTimezone` is enabled.
* Fixed an issue where ASCII Null characters and control characters were randomly dropped from a `resultset`
  with `jdbc_query_result_format=JSON`.

## Version 3.13.30 (April 18, 2023)

### New features and updates

* Upgraded the following software libraries:

  * slf4j-api from version 1.7.25 to version 2.0.6.
  * logback-classic from version 1.2.3 to version 1.3.6.
* Changed the non-critical “SEVERE: HTTP request took longer than 5 min” from an error message to a warning message.
* Added the `http.proxyProtocol` property for JVM proxy settings.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where authentication attempts would time out for chunk download requests.
* Fixed an issue where login credentials were visible in exceptions when a connection URL failed to part.
* Fixed a memory leak cause by checking `isClosed()` before adding a `resultset` to `openResultSets`.
* Fixed an issue where a misleading SAML2 assertion error message was sent when `hostnames` mismatched.
* Fixed an issue with URL-encoded OSCP requests.
* Fixed an issue the `SnowflakeFileTransferAgent.uploadStream()` function incorrectly handled the `overwrite=false` option.
* Fixed an issue where the `metadata.getTableTypes()` method returned the wrong table types.
* Updated the driver to expose the SQL error message in an exception message triggered when asynchronous query calls
  resulted in a failed query and exception.
* Added a check for rare cases when get procedure column calls return an empty result set.
* Changed the warning level to debug/info for log messages related to `SnowflakeConnectionString` parse errors.
* Fixed an issue where the JDBC driver would retry requests that failed with `SSLHandshakeException`.
* Added support for the `snowflake.jdbc.enable.illegalAccessWarning` system property to allow users to disable
  illegal access warnings.
* Fixed an issue whether gsc upload file error messages would display the wrong information.
* Changed the default TTL value to close an idle connection after 60 seconds.
* Fixed a prepared statement ID issue by removing extra describe calls.

## Version 3.13.29 (March 17, 2023)

### New features and updates

* None.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where incorrect column type names were returned for stored procedure column metadata
  when `USE_STATEMENT_TYPE_CALL_FOR_STORED_PROC_CALLS=true`.
* Fixed an issue where the JDBC would retry a GET request when a file could not be downloaded due to a lack of
  space on the target filesystem. Now, the driver throws an exception in this situation.
* Fixed an issue where the JDBC would retry requests on Azure clients when a 404 resource error occurred. Now,
  the driver throws an exception in this situation.
* To protect against SQL injection attacks, the JDBC driver now escapes quotes in the pattern search
  arguments of the DatabaseMetadata API.
* Fixed an issue where getClob() calls raised a NullPointerException when a column contained a NULL value.
  Now, the driver returns `NULL` when column holds a `SQL NULL` value.
* Fixed an issue where the JDBC driver failed to validate an SSO URL before executing it. Now, the driver
  uses the `URLValidator` and `URLEncoder` utilities to validate and encode the URL.

## Version 3.13.28 (February 22, 2023)

### New features and updates

* None.

### Bug fixes

* Added support for the GEOMETRY data type in the `SnowflakeType` enum to fix an issue that occurred when calling
  the `metaData.getColumns()` function to return metadata that included GEOMETRY data.
* Fixed a retry issue in GCP uploadStream that caused partial file uploads when JDBC incorrectly attempted to retry
  uploading an input stream.
* Fixed an issue with stored functions and procedures that returned a `resultset` for `getProcedureColumns()`
  and `getFunctionColumns()` function calls.
* Fixed an issue that caused StreamLoader to generate excessive log messages.

## Version 3.13.27 (January 30, 2023)

### New features and updates

* None

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a race condition that occasionally occurred during GET and PUT operations.
* Fixed an issue where using Okta authentication failed when receiving an HTTP 429 error.
