# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/clients-drivers/jdbc-2024.md

# JDBC Driver release notes for 2024

This article contains the release notes for the JDBC Driver, including the following when applicable:

* Behavior changes
* New features
* Customer-facing bug fixes

Snowflake uses semantic versioning for JDBC Driver updates.

See [JDBC Driver](../../developer-guide/jdbc/jdbc.md) for documentation.

## Version 3.21.0 (December 11, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Added support for regional Google Cloud Storage endpoints.
* Added the `SKIP_TOKEN_FILE_PERMISSIONS_VERIFICATION` option to skip token file permission verification.
* Added the `JAVA_LOGGING_CONSOLE_STD_OUT` option to override default `java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler` to write to `stderr` or `stdout` with a specific threshold.
* Added array bind supported log for prepared statements.
* Removed the experimental label from `snowflake-jdbc-thin artifact`.
* Changed the levels for some log messages.
* Updated the Google and Netty dependencies.
* Updated the javadoc documentation.

### Bug fixes

* Replaced raw asserts with exceptions.
* Changed the IV length to 12 bytes for GCM.
* Changed initialization of `SecureRandom` to use a default JVM random number generator.
* Fixed an issue with merging `io.netty.versions.properties` during shade.
* Fixed uncontrolled logging from Arrow library.
* Fixed native libraries relocation for Netty and Conscrypt during shade.
* Fixed get object and get bytes support for the native arrow structured type.

## Version 3.20.0 (October 30, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Added support for ZSTD decompression.
* Bumped the commons IO dependency to version 2.17.0.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue affecting JDBC drivers where files pushed to Azure and GCP stages were uploaded without client-side encryption when the `CLIENT_ENCRYPTION_KEY_SIZE` parameter was set to 256-bit rather than the default 128-bit. For more information, see the [Snowflake JDBC Security Advisory](https://github.com/snowflakedb/snowflake-jdbc/security/advisories/GHSA-f686-hw9c-xw9c).

## Version 3.19.1 (October 25, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Updated the protobuf-java dependency to version 3.25.5.
* Added log message for canceled query reasons.
* Updated bouncy castle dependencies.
* Added troubleshooting guide link to the messages for SSL exceptions.

### Bug fixes

* Unified the structured types string representation.
* Fixed downloading the stream from the git repository.
* Fixed an issue with the connection timeout parameter.
* Fixed issues with Arrow logging.
* Changed the custom cloud storage header metadata handling to be case-insensitive.

## Version 3.19.0 (August 29, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Added support for disabling connection caching.
* Added the `PRIVATE_KEY_BASE64` connection parameter to support base64-encoded private keys.
* Added the following connection properties to support setting timeouts:

  * `HTTP_CLIENT_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT` and `HTTP_CLIENT_SOCKET_TIMEOUT` connection properties.
  * `BROWSER_RESPONSE_TIMEOUT` connection property to specify a browser timeout.
* Upgraded the following dependencies:

  * `Arrow` to version 17.0.0
  * `threeten-bp` to version 1.6.9

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where the `getDate` method was missing an expected parameter.
* Fixed an issue with a `class not found` problem related to `LoggerFactory`.

## Version 3.18.0 (July 24, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Updated the `netty` library to version 4.1.111.Final.
* Added missing property setters in `SnowflakeBasicDataSource`.
* Added the following connection parameters to support backward compatibility for handling timezones:

  * `JDBC_DEFAULT_FORMAT_DATE_WITH_TIMEZONE` determines whether to use the previously hardcoded value for the formatter (default: `true`).
  * `JDBC_GET_DATE_USE_NULL_TIMEZONE` determines whether to use the previously null timezone value for the getDate method (default: `true`).
* Picked a top-level domain for Snowflake hosts.
* Set the last query ID for all failed statements.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where the retry backoff time could fall outside the minimum and maximum range.
* Fixed an issue relating to converting nested fields metadata in OBJECT columns.
* Fixed an issue where the date files returned the wrong day when using the `getString` or `getDate` method.
* Added a user permission check for a token file.

## Version 3.17.0 (July 08, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Improved logging.
* Exposed the vector dimension in column metadata.
* Added support for `getObject` on vector columns.
* Added support for reading the connection information from a file.
* Added support for Java version 21.
* Added support for dynamic Max LOB size in metadata.
* Improved logging configuration.
* Added JDBC connectivity diagnostics mode.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue with inserting and reading timestamps assymetrically if a batch inserts a large number of columns.
* Fixed an issue with returning inconsistent `timestamps_ltz` between JSON and ARROW result sets.
* Fixed an issue where the driver failed file pattern expansion on file not found in a different pattern.

## Version 3.16.1 (May 27, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Added the `disableSamlURLCheck` parameter to disable SAML URL checks.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue with choosing S3 regional URL domain base on the region name.
* Fixed an issue related to nested paths in Windows when parsing client configurations.
* Fixed an issue where the `getObject` method for arrays in JSON worked incorrectly in versions 3.15.1 and 3.16.0.
* Fixed a casting issue with a `MapVector`.

## Version 3.16.0 (April 29, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Added support for structured types.
* Added support for vector types.
* Improved support for encrypted private keys.
* Updated the security policy notice.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue with native OKTA retry logic.
* Fixed an issue with unsupported reserved keywords.
* Fixed an issue with retry attempts for GET query metadata requests.

## Version 3.15.1 (April 05, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Added support for missing proxy and user password JVM parameters: `http.proxyUser`, `http.proxyPassword`, `https.proxyUser`, `https.proxyPassword`.
* Bumped the `nimbus-jose-jwt` dependency to version 9.37.3.

### Bug fixes

* Moved the public suffix list to an internal package when shading.
* Fixed an issue with ignoring default GCS credentials.
* Fixed an issue with returning decimal or integer values in ARROW format.
* Fixed an issue where the driver returned `java.util.ConcurrentModificationException` while calling `SFAsyncResultSet.next`.
* Fixed an `InvalidPathException` issue on Windows due to nested file paths.

## Version 3.15.0 (February 20, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Added a marker annotation for the internal API.
* Added two new java properties, `net.snowflake.jdbc.http_client_connection_timeout_in_ms` and `net.snowflake.jdbc.http_client_socket_timeout_in_ms`, to let you configure connection and socket timeouts.
* Added a new `enablePatternSearch` connection parameter to enable or disable pattern search for `getCrossReference`, `getExportedKeys`, `getImportedKeys`, and `getPrimaryKeys` metadata operations that should not use their parameters as patterns. Default: `true`.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue with multi-release jar entries.
* Made dependency optional on `com.amazonaws.Protocol` in `HttpClientSettingsKey`.
* Deprecated `com.snowflake.client.jdbc.SnowflakeDriver`.
* Fixed an issue with parsing large responses (greater than 16MB).
* Updated the JDBC specification to version 4.2.

## Version 3.14.5 (January 24, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Added support for AIX 7.2.
* Added support for multiple SAML integrations.
* Updated the `grpc-netty-shaded` dependency to 1.60.0.
* Created a thin jar as a separate maven artifact `snowflake-jdbc-thin` (JDBC thin jar is an experimental feature).
* Implemented `toString()` in `SnowflakePreparedStatementV1`.
* Added `getQueryStatusV2` as replacement for deprecated `getQueryStatus`.

### Bug fixes

* Set the last query ID for failed statements.
* Fixed OOB telemetry initialization when using connectionless mode.
* Fixed an issue with handling GCP token expiration correctly when using connectionless mode.
* Fixed arrow format on AIX.
