# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/logging-tracing/logging-javascript.md

# Logging messages in JavaScript

You can log messages from a function or procedure handler written in JavaScript by using the `snowflake` object included with the
Snowflake JavaScript API. When you’ve set up an event table to store log entries, Snowflake stores log entries generated by your handler
code in the table. For reference about the JavaScript API, see [JavaScript stored procedures API](../stored-procedure/stored-procedures-api.md).

Before logging from code, be sure you have the logging level set so that the messages you want are stored in the event table. For more
information, see [Setting levels for logging, metrics, and tracing](telemetry-levels.md).

> **Note:**
>
> Before you can begin logging messages, you must set up an event table. For more information, see
> [Event table overview](event-table-setting-up.md).

You can access log messages by executing a SELECT command on the event table. For more information, see
[Viewing log messages](logging-accessing-messages.md).

For general information about setting up logging and retrieving messages in Snowflake, see
[Logging messages from functions and procedures](logging.md).

Code in the following example uses the included `snowflake` object to log messages at each of the supported levels.
Note that a message logged from a method that processes an input row will be logged *for every row* processed by the UDF. If the UDF is
executed in a large table, this can result in a large number of messages in the event table.

```javascript
snowflake.log("info", "Information-level message");
snowflake.log("error", "Error message");
snowflake.log("warn", "Warning message");
snowflake.log("debug", "Debug message");
snowflake.log("trace", "Trace message");
snowflake.log("fatal", "Fatal message");
```

## Adding custom attributes

When you create a log entry, you can add your own attributes in key-value pairs. Snowflake saves these custom attributes to the event
table’s [RECORD_ATTRIBUTES column](event-table-columns.md).

To add custom attributes when calling the `snowflake.log` method, assemble the key-value pairs in JSON that you pass as a third
argument to the `log` function.

Code in the following example logs a message “Logging with attributes” to the event table’s VALUE column. It also adds two custom
attributes to the RECORD_ATTRIBUTES column.

```sqlexample-javascript
CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE do_logging_javascript()
RETURNS VARCHAR
LANGUAGE JAVASCRIPT
AS $$
  let log_attributes = {
    "custom1": "value1",
    "custom2": "value2"
  }
  snowflake.log("info", "Logging with attributes", log_attributes)
  return "success";
$$;
```

Output of this `log` call appears in the event table as follows. Note that the RECORD_ATTRIBUTES column will include
attributes that Snowflake adds automatically.

```output
------------------------------------------------------------------
| VALUE                     | RECORD_ATTRIBUTES                  |
------------------------------------------------------------------
| "Logging with attributes" | {                                  |
|                           |   "custom1": "value1",             |
|                           |   "custom2": "value2"              |
|                           | }                                  |
------------------------------------------------------------------
```
