# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/clients-drivers/odbc-2024.md

# ODBC Driver release notes for 2024

This article contains the release notes for the ODBC Driver, including the following when applicable:

* Behavior changes
* New features
* Customer-facing bug fixes

Snowflake uses semantic versioning for ODBC Driver updates.

See [ODBC Driver](../../developer-guide/odbc/odbc.md) for documentation.

## Version 3.5.0 (November 04, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Added support for Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 8 and CentOS 8 for ARM64 processors.
* Added a connectivity diagnostics mode, including the following new connection parameters:

  * `enable_connection_diag`, which controls whether the connector generates a connectivity diagnostic report.
  * `connection_diag_log_path`, which is the absolute path where the connectivity report is stored.
  * `connection_diag_allowlist_path`, which is the absolute path to a JSON file containing the output of `SYSTEM$ALLOWLIST()`
    or `SYSTEM$ALLOWLIST_PRIVATELINK()`.
* Updated the following libraries:

  * curl from version 8.7.1 to 8.10.1.
  * openssl from version 3.0.13 to 3.0.15.

### Bug fixes

* None.

## Version 3.4.1 (September 03, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Improved error messages for network errors.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue of introducing delays in some cases when running put/get command.
* Fixed an issue where unsupported usage of `SQL_DEFAULT_PARAM` is not handled correctly.

## Version 3.4.0 (July 29, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Added support for passing private key file content through `SQLSetConnectAttr` when using key-pair authentication.
* Added support for different top-level domains, such as `.cn` in China.
* Added a change log in the Linux `rpm` package.
* Increased the maximum allowable LOB (large object) size.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue that caused the driver to become unresponsive in some cases when logging.
* Fixed an issue where an error is returned when calling a SQL procedure that returns NULL.
* Fixed an issue where multi-statement queries returned incorrect query results when the multi-statement query had more than one USE command.
* Fixed an issue with memory leaks when reading environment variables.
* Fixed an issue where proxy settings in environment variables is not honored on Windows.

## Version 3.3.2 (June 24, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Added the `disableSamlUrlCheck` connection parameter to disable verification for SAML URLs.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue with choosing the S3 regional URL domain based on the region name.
* Fixed an issue where the driver didn’t return query results correctly in some cases using scripting.
* Fixed an issue where `SQLColAttribute(SQL_DESC_TYPE_NAME)` didn’t return type names for custom SQL data types.
* Fixed an issue with incorrect information in logging.

## Version 3.3.1 (May 02, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Updated the following library versions:

  * arrow from 0.17.1 to 15.0.0.
  * aws sdk from 1.3.50 to 1.11.283.
  * curl from 8.6.0 to 8.7.1.

### Bug fixes

* None.

## Version 3.3.0 (April 08, 2024)

### New features and updates

* Added support for log settings in a logging configuration file.
* Updated the following library versions:

  * curl from 8.4.0 to 8.6.0.
  * openssl from 3.0.11 to 3.0.13.
  * zlib from 1.2.13 to 1.3.1.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed performance regression on Windows when using `SQLGetData` to retrieve the query results.
* Fixed an issue where `SQLProcedures()` didn’t list stored procedures that returned a table without a column definition.
* Upgraded the compiler on Windows and added more build flags to address security concerns.
* Fixed an issue where memory allocation failures could cause applications to terminate with a potential resource leak.
* Fixed an issue relating to out of bounds memory access errors.
* Removed CRT functions banned by Microsoft due to security concerns.
* Fixed an issue where using key pair authentication failed when a private key file path contained non-ASCII characters.

## Version 3.2.0 (January 19, 2024)

### BCR (Behavior Change Release) changes

With the 3.2.0 release, the ODBC driver removed the `ODBCInstLib` setting in the configuration file when initially installing the driver. During installation, the driver now searches the driver manager library for different possible locations based on the platform. This approach provides greater flexibility for various platforms. If the driver cannot find the library, it displays an `Unable to locate SQLGetPrivateProfileString function` error. In this case, you might need to set `ODBCInstLib` manually with the name of the driver manager on your system. For more information, see [Configure the ODBC Driver](../../developer-guide/odbc/odbc-linux.md).

### New features and updates

* Added support for multiple SAML integrations.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed performance regression on Windows when using SQLGetData to retrieve the query result. Some cases, such as `varchar`, might still experience performance regression. These issues will be fixed in a future release.
* Fixed an issue where using Okta authentication failed when receiving an HTTP 429 error.
* Fixed an improper error message when creating a DSN with an invalid name.
