# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/clients-drivers/odbc-2022.md

# ODBC Driver release notes for 2022

This article contains the release notes for the ODBC Driver, including the following when applicable:

* Behavior changes
* New features
* Customer-facing bug fixes

Snowflake uses semantic versioning for ODBC Driver updates.

See [ODBC Driver](../../developer-guide/odbc/odbc.md) for documentation.

## Version 2.25.7 (December 13, 2022)

### Documentation-only update

This month’s update includes only changes to the ODBC documentation and does not contain any software updates.

* Updated the [Managing/Using Federated Authentication](../../user-guide/admin-security-fed-auth-use.md)
  documentation to reflect a limitation relating to using OKTA and MFA (multi-factor authentication) with ODBC.

## Version 2.25.7 (October 28, 2022)

### BCR (Behavior Change Release) change

> **Caution:**
>
> Version 2.25.7 of the Snowflake ODBC driver included updates to match functionality described in
> the [ODBC Driver](../../developer-guide/odbc/odbc.md) documentation. Snowflake recommends that you do not install this version
> into a production environment before testing.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue in which proxy settings in the connection parameters could incorrectly impact other connections.
* Fixed an issue where GET command calls might corrupt files.

## Version 2.25.6 (October 12, 2022)

### New features

* Updated supported versions for the following libraries:

  * Updated openssl to version 1.1.1q.
  * Updated curl to version 7.84.0.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where a stage binding issue caused the application to crash.
* Fixed an issue with the pathname for the Macintosh arm64 processor installation package.

## Version 2.25.5 (August 23, 2022)

### New features

* Added support for the new OKTA Identity Engine (OIE).

### Bug fixes

* Fixed issues for catalog functions with names that contain special characters.
* Fixed an issue with connection failures that occurred when the `validateSessionParam` configuration parameter
  is enabled and a database name contains a hyphen.
* Fixed an issue where corrupted files occasionally occurred with GET downloads.
* Fixed upload failures for files larger than 2 GB.

## Version 2.25.4 (August 1, 2022)

### Bug fixes

* Improved performance for parameter array binding.

## Version 2.25.3 (June 21, 2022)

### New features

* Added support for Arm64 on Linux.

## Version 2.25.2 (June 01, 2022)

### New features

* Added support for a new `SecondaryRoles` parameter.
* Improved parameter binding performance.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue with using user-defined formats for TIMESTAMP_INPUT_FORMAT during stage binding by always
  using the default format for TIMESTAMP_INPUT_FORMAT for stage binding.

## Version 2.25.0 (May 09, 2022)

### New features

* Added Arm64 support for M1 Macintosh systems.
* Upgraded the openssl library from version 1.1.1l to 1.1.1n.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where stage binding failed with timestamp and date data types.
* Fixed an issue that caused a crash when changing the result format during a query.
* Fixed an issue that caused `SQLSetConnectAttr(SQL_ATTR_CURRENT_CATALOG)` to fail when the database name used
  lowercase letters.

## Version 2.24.7 (March 17, 2022)

### New features

* Added support for Snowflake server-side encryption.
* Added support for non-ascii characters in the catalog function filters.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue with the `SQLGetData()` function.
* Removed extraneous XML files from the installation package.
* Fixed an issue with the encryption key size for PUT and GET calls.
* Fixed an invalid database error.

## Version 2.24.6 (February 21, 2022)

### Bug fixes

* Improved performance for `TIMESTAMP_TZ` and `TIMESTAMP_LTZ` on Windows.
* Enabled support for the undocumented `CLIENT_TELEMETRY_ENABLED` parameter.

## Version 2.24.5 (January 20, 2022)

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where the test button crashed
* Fixed an issue where loading an OCSP cache file always failed.
* Fixed an issue with Invalid arrow chunks when retrying a query.
