# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/snowpark/scala/quickstart-scala-repl.md

# Setting Up the Scala REPL for Snowpark Scala

This topic explains how to set up the Scala REPL for Snowpark.

## Installing the Scala REPL

The [Scala REPL](https://docs.scala-lang.org/overviews/repl/overview.html)
([read-eval-print loop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Read%E2%80%93eval%E2%80%93print_loop)) is provided with the Scala build
tool. To install the
[supported version of the Scala build tool](prerequisites.md),
[find the version that you plan to use](https://www.scala-lang.org/download/all.html), and follow the installation instructions.

## Running the Scala REPL

To use the Snowpark library in the Scala REPL:

1. If you have not already done so,
   [download the Snowpark library archive file and extract the contents of the file](setup-other-environments.md).
2. Start the REPL by running the `run.sh` shell script provided in the archive file:

> ```
> cd <path>/snowpark-1.18.0
> ./run.sh
> ```

The `run.sh` script does the following:

* Adds the Snowpark library and dependencies to the classpath.
* Creates a <path>/snowpark-1.18.0/repl_classes/ directory for the classes generated by the Scala REPL.
* Preloads the `preload.scala` file, which imports the `com.snowflake.snowpark` package and the
  `com.snowflake.snowpark.functions` object.

If you are using a different REPL for Scala:

1. Add the Snowpark library JAR file and dependencies to the classpath.

   * The Snowpark library JAR file is in the top level directory of the extracted TAR/ZIP archive file.
   * The dependencies are in the `lib` directory of the extracted TAR/ZIP archive file.
2. Create a temporary directory for the classes generated by the REPL, and configure the REPL to generate classes in that
   directory.

Later, when defining inline user-defined functions (UDFs), you’ll need to
[specify the directory for the REPL classes as a dependency](creating-udfs.md).

## Verifying Your Scala REPL Configuration

To verify that you have configured your project to use Snowpark, run a simple example of Snowpark code.

1. In the directory containing the files extracted from the `.zip` / `.tar.gz` file (i.e. the directory containing
   the `run.sh` script), create a `Main.scala` file that contains the code below:

   ```scala
   import com.snowflake.snowpark._
   import com.snowflake.snowpark.functions._

   object Main {
     def main(args: Array[String]): Unit = {
       // Replace the <placeholders> below.
       val configs = Map (
         "URL" -> "https://<account_identifier>.snowflakecomputing.com:443",
         "USER" -> "<user name>",
         "PASSWORD" -> "<password>",
         "ROLE" -> "<role name>",
         "WAREHOUSE" -> "<warehouse name>",
         "DB" -> "<database name>",
         "SCHEMA" -> "<schema name>"
       )
       val session = Session.builder.configs(configs).create
       session.sql("show tables").show()
     }
   }
   ```

   Note the following:

   * Replace the `<placeholders>` with values that you use to connect to Snowflake.
   * For `<account_identifier>`, specify your [account identifier](../../../user-guide/admin-account-identifier.md).
   * If you prefer to use [key pair authentication](../../../user-guide/key-pair-auth.md):

     * Replace `PASSWORD` with `PRIVATE_KEY_FILE`, and set it to the path to your private key file.
     * If the private key is encrypted, you must set `PRIVATE_KEY_FILE_PWD` to the passphrase for decrypting the private key.

     As an alternative to setting `PRIVATE_KEY_FILE` and `PRIVATE_KEY_FILE_PWD`, you can set the `PRIVATEKEY`
     property to the string value of the unencrypted private key from the private key file.

     * For example, if your private key file is unencrypted, set this to the value of the key in the file (without the
       `-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----` and `-----END PRIVATE KEY-----` header and footer and without the line endings).
     * Note that if the private key is encrypted, you must decrypt the key before setting it as the value of the `PRIVATEKEY`
       property.
   * If you plan to create UDFs:

     * Don’t set up your `object` to extend the `App` trait. For details, see
       [Caveat About Creating UDFs in an Object With the App Trait](creating-udfs.md).
     * Don’t set up your `object` to extend a class or trait that is not serializable.
2. From within the directory, run the `run.sh` script to start the Scala REPL with the settings needed for the Snowpark
   library:

   ```bash
   ./run.sh
   ```

3. In the Scala REPL shell, enter the following command to load the sample file that you just created:

   ```none
   :load Main.scala
   ```

4. Run the following statement to execute the `main` method of the class that you loaded:

   ```scala
   Main.main(Array[String]())
   ```

   This runs the `SHOW TABLES` command and prints out the first 10 rows of the results.
