# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/snowflake-cli/command-reference/native-apps-commands/retrieve-app-events.md

# snow app events

Fetches events for this app from the event table configured in Snowflake. By default, this command will fetch events generated by an app installed in the current connection’s account. To fetch events generated by an app installed in a consumer account, use the –consumer-org and –consumer-account options. This requires event sharing to be set up to route events to the provider account: <https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/native-apps/setting-up-logging-and-events>

## Syntax

```console
snow app events
  --since <since>
  --until <until>
  --type <record_types>
  --scope <scopes>
  --consumer-org <consumer_org>
  --consumer-account <consumer_account>
  --consumer-app-hash <consumer_app_hash>
  --first <first>
  --last <last>
  --follow
  --follow-interval <follow_interval>
  --package-entity-id <package_entity_id>
  --app-entity-id <app_entity_id>
  --project <project_definition>
  --env <env_overrides>
  --connection <connection>
  --host <host>
  --port <port>
  --account <account>
  --user <user>
  --password <password>
  --authenticator <authenticator>
  --workload-identity-provider <workload_identity_provider>
  --private-key-file <private_key_file>
  --token <token>
  --token-file-path <token_file_path>
  --database <database>
  --schema <schema>
  --role <role>
  --warehouse <warehouse>
  --temporary-connection
  --mfa-passcode <mfa_passcode>
  --enable-diag
  --diag-log-path <diag_log_path>
  --diag-allowlist-path <diag_allowlist_path>
  --oauth-client-id <oauth_client_id>
  --oauth-client-secret <oauth_client_secret>
  --oauth-authorization-url <oauth_authorization_url>
  --oauth-token-request-url <oauth_token_request_url>
  --oauth-redirect-uri <oauth_redirect_uri>
  --oauth-scope <oauth_scope>
  --oauth-disable-pkce
  --oauth-enable-refresh-tokens
  --oauth-enable-single-use-refresh-tokens
  --client-store-temporary-credential
  --format <format>
  --verbose
  --debug
  --silent
  --enhanced-exit-codes
  --decimal-precision <decimal_precision>
```

## Arguments

None

## Options

`--since TEXT`
:   Fetch events that are newer than this time ago, in Snowflake interval syntax.

`--until TEXT`
:   Fetch events that are older than this time ago, in Snowflake interval syntax.

`--type [log|span|span_event]`
:   Restrict results to specific record type. Can be specified multiple times. Default: [].

`--scope TEXT`
:   Restrict results to a specific scope name. Can be specified multiple times. Default: [].

`--consumer-org TEXT`
:   The name of the consumer organization.

`--consumer-account TEXT`
:   The name of the consumer account in the organization.

`--consumer-app-hash TEXT`
:   The SHA-1 hash of the consumer application name.

`--first INTEGER`
:   Fetch only the first N events. Cannot be used with –last. Default: -1.

`--last INTEGER`
:   Fetch only the last N events. Cannot be used with –first. Default: -1.

`--follow, -f`
:   Continue polling for events. Implies –last 20 unless overridden or the –since flag is used. Default: False.

`--follow-interval INTEGER`
:   Polling interval in seconds when using the –follow flag. Default: 10.

`--package-entity-id TEXT`
:   The ID of the package entity on which to operate when the definition_version is 2 or higher.

`--app-entity-id TEXT`
:   The ID of the application entity on which to operate when the definition_version is 2 or higher.

`-p, --project TEXT`
:   Path where the Snowflake project is stored. Defaults to the current working directory.

`--env TEXT`
:   String in the format key=value. Overrides variables from the env section used for templates. Default: [].

`--connection, -c, --environment TEXT`
:   Name of the connection, as defined in your `config.toml` file. Default: `default`.

`--host TEXT`
:   Host address for the connection. Overrides the value specified for the connection.

`--port INTEGER`
:   Port for the connection. Overrides the value specified for the connection.

`--account, --accountname TEXT`
:   Name assigned to your Snowflake account. Overrides the value specified for the connection.

`--user, --username TEXT`
:   Username to connect to Snowflake. Overrides the value specified for the connection.

`--password TEXT`
:   Snowflake password. Overrides the value specified for the connection.

`--authenticator TEXT`
:   Snowflake authenticator. Overrides the value specified for the connection.

`--workload-identity-provider TEXT`
:   Workload identity provider (AWS, AZURE, GCP, OIDC). Overrides the value specified for the connection.

`--private-key-file, --private-key-path TEXT`
:   Snowflake private key file path. Overrides the value specified for the connection.

`--token TEXT`
:   OAuth token to use when connecting to Snowflake.

`--token-file-path TEXT`
:   Path to file with an OAuth token to use when connecting to Snowflake.

`--database, --dbname TEXT`
:   Database to use. Overrides the value specified for the connection.

`--schema, --schemaname TEXT`
:   Database schema to use. Overrides the value specified for the connection.

`--role, --rolename TEXT`
:   Role to use. Overrides the value specified for the connection.

`--warehouse TEXT`
:   Warehouse to use. Overrides the value specified for the connection.

`--temporary-connection, -x`
:   Uses a connection defined with command-line parameters, instead of one defined in config. Default: False.

`--mfa-passcode TEXT`
:   Token to use for multi-factor authentication (MFA).

`--enable-diag`
:   Whether to generate a connection diagnostic report. Default: False.

`--diag-log-path TEXT`
:   Path for the generated report. Defaults to system temporary directory. Default: <system_temporary_directory>.

`--diag-allowlist-path TEXT`
:   Path to a JSON file that contains allowlist parameters.

`--oauth-client-id TEXT`
:   Value of client id provided by the Identity Provider for Snowflake integration.

`--oauth-client-secret TEXT`
:   Value of the client secret provided by the Identity Provider for Snowflake integration.

`--oauth-authorization-url TEXT`
:   Identity Provider endpoint supplying the authorization code to the driver.

`--oauth-token-request-url TEXT`
:   Identity Provider endpoint supplying the access tokens to the driver.

`--oauth-redirect-uri TEXT`
:   URI to use for authorization code redirection.

`--oauth-scope TEXT`
:   Scope requested in the Identity Provider authorization request.

`--oauth-disable-pkce`
:   Disables Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE). Default: `False`.

`--oauth-enable-refresh-tokens`
:   Enables a silent re-authentication when the actual access token becomes outdated. Default: `False`.

`--oauth-enable-single-use-refresh-tokens`
:   Whether to opt-in to single-use refresh token semantics. Default: `False`.

`--client-store-temporary-credential`
:   Store the temporary credential.

`--format [TABLE|JSON|JSON_EXT|CSV]`
:   Specifies the output format. Default: TABLE.

`--verbose, -v`
:   Displays log entries for log levels `info` and higher. Default: False.

`--debug`
:   Displays log entries for log levels `debug` and higher; debug logs contain additional information. Default: False.

`--silent`
:   Turns off intermediate output to console. Default: False.

`--enhanced-exit-codes`
:   Differentiate exit error codes based on failure type. Default: False.

`--decimal-precision INTEGER`
:   Number of decimal places to display for decimal values. Uses Python’s default precision if not specified. [env var: SNOWFLAKE_DECIMAL_PRECISION].

`--help`
:   Displays the help text for this command.

## Usage notes

> **Note:**
>
> Before using this command, you must set up event handling for the provider Snowflake account. For information, see [Logging, tracing, and metrics](../../../logging-tracing/logging-tracing-overview.md).

The `snow app events` command retrieves events generated by an installed native application installed in the current connection’s account.

By default, this command will fetch events generated by a Snowflake Native App installed in the current connection’s account. To fetch events generated by a Snowflake Native App installed in a consumer account, use the `--consumer-org` and `--consumer-account` options. These options require event sharing to be [set up to route events](../../../native-apps/event-about.md) to the provider account.

## Examples

* Retrieve all events for an application installed in the provider account.

  ```snowcli
  snow app events
  ```

* Retrieve a subset of events for an application installed in the provider account.

  ```snowcli
  # Limiting the number of events
  snow app events --first 10
  snow app events --last 10

  # Narrowing the time range using interval syntax
  snow app events --since '5 minutes'
  snow app events --until '1 hour'

  # Filtering events
  snow app events --type log
  snow app events --scope com.myapp.MyClass1 --scope com.myapp.MyClass2
  ```

* Retrieve events for a consumer installation.

  ```snowcli
  snow app events --consumer-org <organization-name> --consumer-account <account-name>
  ```

* Retrieve events for a consumer application using the hashed application name.

  ```snowcli
  snow app events --consumer-org <organization-name> --consumer-account <account-name> --consumer-app-hash cafc10bf6a5deb574ada0e3a009b63bbbe9bdb84
  ```

* Retrieve events as JSON.

  ```snowcli
  snow app events --format json
  ```
