# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/clients-drivers/snowpark-python-2023.md

# Snowpark Library for Python release notes for 2023

This article contains the release notes for the [Snowpark Library for Python](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/index.md), including the following when applicable:

* Behavior changes
* New features
* Customer-facing bug fixes

Snowflake uses semantic versioning for [Snowpark Library for Python](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/index.md) updates.

See [Snowpark Developer Guide for Python](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/index.md) for documentation.

## Version 1.11.1 (2023-12-07)

Version 1.11.1 of the Snowpark library introduces some new features.

### New features

* Added the `conn_error` attribute to `SnowflakeSQLException`, which stores the whole underlying exception from `snowflake-connector-python`.
* Added support for `RelationalGroupedDataframe.pivot()` to access `pivot` in the following pattern `Dataframe.group_by(...).pivot(...)`.
* Added the experimental feature, Local Testing Mode, which allows you to create and operate on Snowpark Python DataFrames locally without connecting to a Snowflake account.
  You can use the local testing framework to test your DataFrame operations locally, on your development machine or in a CI (continuous integration) pipeline, before deploying code changes to your account.
* Added support for `arrays_to_object` new functions in `snowflake.snowpark.functions`.
* Added support for the vector data type.

### Dependency updates

* Bumped the cloudpickle dependency to work with `cloudpickle==2.2.1`.
* Updated `snowflake-connector-python` to version `3.4.0`.

### Bug fixes

* DataFrame column names quoting check now supports newline characters.
* Fixed a bug where a DataFrame generated by `session.read.with_metadata` created an inconsistent table when doing `df.write.save_as_table`.

## Version 1.10.0 (2023-11-03)

Version 1.10.0 of the Snowpark library introduces some new features.

### New features

* Added support for managing case sensitivity in `DataFrame.to_local_iterator()`.
* Added support for specifying vectorized UDTF’s input column names by using the optional parameter `input_names` in
  `UDTFRegistration.register`, `UDTFRegistration.register_file`, and `functions.pandas_udtf`.
  By default, `RelationalGroupedDataFrame.applyInPandas` will infer the column names from current DataFrame schema.
* Added `sql_error_code` and `raw_message` attributes to `SnowflakeSQLException` when it is caused by a SQL exception.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug in `DataFrame.to_pandas()` where converting Snowpark DataFrames to Pandas DataFrames was losing precision on integers with more than 19 digits.
* Fixed a bug in `session.add_packages` where it could not handle a requirement specifier that contained a project name with an underscore and a version.
* Fixed a bug in `DataFrame.limit()` when `offset` is used and the parent `DataFrame` uses `limit`. Now the `offset` won’t impact the parent DataFrame’s `limit`.
* Fixed a bug in `DataFrame.write.save_as_table` where DataFrames created from the read API could not save data into Snowflake because of an invalid column name `$1`.

### Behavior changes

* Changed the behavior of `date_format`:

  * The `format` argument changed from optional to required.
  * The returned result changed from a date object to a date-formatted string.
* When a window function or a sequence-dependent data generator (`normal`, `zipf`, `uniform`, `seq1`, `seq2`, `seq4`, `seq8`) function is used, the
  sort and filter operation will no longer be flattened when generating the query.

## Version 1.9.0 (2023-10-16)

Version 1.9.0 of the Snowpark library introduces some new features.

### New features

* Added support for the Python 3.11 runtime environment.
* Support `PythonObjJSONEncoder` JSON-serializable objects for `ARRAY` and `OBJECT` literals.

### Dependency updates

* Re-added the dependency of `typing-extensions`.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug where imports from permanent stage locations were ignored for temporary stored procedures, UDTFs, UDFs, and UDAFs.
* Revert back to using CTAS (CREATE TABLE AS SELECT) statement for `DataFrameWriter.save_as_table` which does not need insert permission for writing tables.

## Version 1.8.0 (2023-09-14)

Version 1.8.0 of the Snowpark library introduces some new features.

### New features

* Added support for `VOLATILE` and `IMMUTABLE` keywords when registering UDFs.
* Added support for specifying clustering keys when saving dataframes using `DataFrame.save_as_table`.
* Accept `Iterable` objects input for `schema` when creating dataframes using `Session.create_dataframe`.
* Added the `DataFrame.session` property to return a `Session` object.
* Added the `Session.session_id` property to return an integer that represents the session ID.
* Added the `Session.connection` property to return a `SnowflakeConnection` object.
* Added support for creating a Snowpark session from a configuration file or environment variables.

### Dependency updates

* Updated `snowflake-connector-python` to 3.2.0.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug where an automatic package upload would raise `ValueError` even when compatible package versions were added in `session.add_packages`.
* Fixed a bug where table stored procedures were not registered correctly when using `register_from_file`.
* Fixed a bug where dataframe joins failed with `invalid_identifier` error.
* Fixed a bug where `DataFrame.copy` disabled SQL simplifier for the returned copy.
* Fixed a bug where `session.sql().select()` would fail if any parameters were specified to `session.sql()`.

## Version 1.7.0 (2023-08-28)

Version 1.7.0 of the Snowpark library introduces some new features.

### Behavior changes

* When creating stored procedures, UDFs, UDTFs, and UDAFs with the parameter `is_permanent=False`, temporary objects are created
  even when `stage_name` is provided. The default value of `is_permanent` is `False`, which is why if this value is not
  explicitly set to `True` for permanent objects, users will notice a change in behavior.
* `types.StructField` now enquotes column identifier by default.

### New features

* Added parameters `external_access_integrations` and `secrets` that can be used when creating a UDF, UDTF or stored procedure from Snowpark Python to allow integration with external access.
* Added support for these new functions in `snowflake.snowpark.functions`: `array_flatten` and `flatten`.
* Added support for `apply_in_pandas` in `snowflake.snowpark.relational_grouped_dataframe`.
* Added support for replicating your local Python environment on Snowflake via `Session.replicate_local_environment`.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug where `session.create_dataframe` fails to properly set nullable columns where nullability was affected by order or when data was given.
* Fixed a bug where `DataFrame.select` could not identify and alias columns when using table functions when output columns of the table function overlapped with columns in the DataFrame.

## Version 1.6.1 (2023-08-02)

### Behavior changes

* `DataFrameWriter.save_as_table` now respects nullable field of for schema provided by the user, or inferred schema based on data from user input.

### New features

* Added support for new functions in `snowflake.snowpark.functions`:

  * `array_sort`
  * `sort_array`
  * `array_min`
  * `array_max`
  * `explode_outer`
* Added support for pure Python packages specified via `Session.add_requirements` or `Session.add_packages`.
  They are now usable in stored procedures and UDFs even if packages are not present on the Snowflake Anaconda channel.
* Added the Session parameter `custom_packages_upload_enabled` and `custom_packages_force_upload_enabled` to enable
  the support for pure Python packages feature mentioned above. Both parameters default to `False`.
* Added support for specifying package requirements by passing a conda environment YAML file to `Session.add_requirements`.
* Added support for asynchronous execution of multi-query dataframes that contain binding variables.
* Added support for renaming multiple columns in `DataFrame.rename`.
* Added support for Geometry datatypes.
* Added support for params in `session.sql()` in stored procedures.
* Added support for user-defined aggregate functions (UDAFs). This feature is currently in private preview.
* Added support for vectorized user-defined table functions (vectorized UDTFs). This feature is currently in public preview.
* Added support for Snowflake Timestamp variants (i.e., `TIMESTAMP_NTZ`, `TIMESTAMP_LTZ`, `TIMESTAMP_TZ`):

  * Added TimestampTimezone as an argument in `TimestampType` constructor.
  * Added type hints: `NTZ`, `LTZ`, `TZ` and Timestamp to annotate functions when registering UDFs.

### Improvements

* Removed redundant dependency typing-extensions.
* `DataFrame.cache_result` now creates a temp table of fully-qualified names under the current database and schema.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug where type check happens on pandas before it is imported.
* Fixed a bug when creating a UDF from `numpy.ufunc`.
* Fixed a bug where `DataFrame.union` was not generating the correct `Selectable.schema_query` when SQL simplifier is enabled.

### Dependency updates

* Updated `snowflake-connector-python` to version 3.0.4.

## Version 1.5.1 (2023-06-20)

### New features and updates

* Added support for the Python 3.10 runtime environment.

## Version 1.5.0 (2023-06-13)

### Behavior changes

* Aggregation results, from functions such as `DataFrame.agg` and `DataFrame.describe`, no longer strip away
  non-printing characters from column names.

### New features and updates

* Added support for the Python 3.9 runtime environment.
* Added support for new functions in `snowflake.snowpark.functions`:
* `array_generate_range`
* `array_unique_agg`
* `collect_set`
* `sequence`
* Added support for registering and calling stored procedures with the `TABLE` return type.
* Added support for parameter length in `StringType()` to specify the maximum number of characters that can be
  stored by the column.
* Added the alias `functions.element_at()` for `functions.get()`.
* Added the alias `Column.contains` for `functions.contains`.
* Added the experimental feature `DataFrame.alias`.
* Added support for querying metadata columns from stage when creating `DataFrame` using `DataFrameReader`.
* Added support for `StructType.add` to append more fields to existing `StructType` objects.
* Added support for parameter `execute_as` in `StoredProcedureRegistration.register_from_file()` to specify stored
  procedure caller rights.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug where the `Dataframe.join_table_function` did not run all of the necessary queries to set up the
  join table function when SQL simplifier was enabled.
* Fixed type hint declaration for custom types: `ColumnOrName`, `ColumnOrLiteralStr`, `ColumnOrSqlExpr`,
  `LiteralType` and `ColumnOrLiteral` that were breaking `mypy` checks.
* Fixed a bug where `DataFrameWriter.save_as_table` and `DataFrame.copy_into_table` failed to parse fully qualified table names.

## Version 1.4.0 (2023-04-24)

### New features

* Added support for `session.getOrCreate`.
* Added support for alias `Column.getField`.
* Added support for new functions in `snowflake.snowpark.functions`:

  * `date_add` and `date_sub` to make add and subtract operations easier.
  * `ddaydiff`
  * `dexplode`
  * `darray_distinct`
  * `dregexp_extract`
  * `dstruct`
  * `dformat_number`
  * `dbround`
  * `dsubstring_index`
* Added parameter `skip_upload_on_content_match` when creating UDFs, UDTFs, and stored procedures
  using `register_from_file` to skip uploading files to a stage if the same version of the files are already on the stage.
* Added support for the `DataFrame.save_as_table` method to take table names that contain dots.
* Flattened generated SQL when `DataFrame.filter()` or `DataFrame.order_by()` is followed by a projection
  statement (e.g. `DataFrame.select()`, `DataFrame.with_column()`).
* Added support for creating dynamic tables (in private preview) using `Dataframe.create_or_replace_dynamic_table`.
* Added an optional argument, `params`, in `session.sql()` to support binding variables. Note that this
  argument is not supported in stored procedures yet.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug in `strtok_to_array` where an exception was thrown when a delimiter was passed in.
* Fixed a bug in `session.add_import` where the module had the same namespace as other dependencies.

## Version 1.3.0 (2023-03-28)

### New features

* Added support for the delimiters parameter in `functions.initcap()`.
* Added support for `functions.hash()` to accept a variable number of input expressions.
* Added API `Session.conf` for getting, setting or checking the mutability of any runtime configuration.
* Added support for managing case sensitivity in `Row` results from `DataFrame.collect` using `case_sensitive` parameter.
* Added indexer support for `snowflake.snowpark.types.StructType`.
* Added a keyword argument `log_on_exception` to `Dataframe.collect` and `Dataframe.collect_no_wait` to optionally
  disable error logging for SQL exceptions.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug where a DataFrame set operation (`DataFrame.subtract`, `DataFrame.union`, etc.) being called after
  another DataFrame set operation and `DataFrame.select` or `DataFrame.with_column` throws an exception.
* Fixed a bug where chained sort statements are overwritten by the SQL simplifier.

### Improvements

* Simplified JOIN queries to use constant subquery aliases (`SNOWPARK_LEFT`, `SNOWPARK_RIGHT`) by default. Users can
  disable this at runtime with `session.conf.set('use_constant_subquery_alias', False)` to use randomly generated
  alias names instead.
* Allowed specifying statement parameters in `session.call()`.
* Enabled the uploading of large pandas DataFrames in stored procedures by defaulting to a chunk size of 100,000 rows.

## Version 1.2.0 (2023-03-02)

### New features and updates

* Added support for displaying source code as comments in the generated scripts when registering stored procedures.
  This is enabled by default, turn off by specifying `source_code_display=False` at registration.
* Added a parameter `if_not_exists` when creating a UDF, UDTF or Stored Procedure from Snowpark Python to ignore
  creating the specified function or procedure if it already exists.
* Accept integers when calling `snowflake.snowpark.functions.get` to extract value from array.
* Added `functions.reverse` in functions to open access to Snowflake built-in function [REVERSE](../../sql-reference/functions/reverse.md).
* Added parameter `require_scoped_url` in `snowflake.snowflake.files.SnowflakeFile.open()` (in Private Preview) to
  replace `is_owner_file`, which is marked for deprecation.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug that overwrote `paramstyle` to `qmark` when creating a Snowpark session.
* Fixed a bug where `df.join(..., how="cross")` fails with `SnowparkJoinException: (1112): Unsupported using join type 'Cross'`.
* Fixed a bug where querying a `DataFrame` column created from chained function calls used a wrong column name.

## Version 1.1.0 (2023-01-26)

### New features and updates

* Added `asc`, `asc_nulls_first`, `asc_nulls_last`, `desc`, `desc_nulls_first`, `desc_nulls_last`,
  `date_part`, and `unix_timestamp` in functions.
* Added the property `DataFrame.dtypes` to return a list of column name and data type pairs.
* Added the following aliases:

  * `functions.expr() for functions.sql_expr()`.
  * `functions.date_format() for functions.to_date()`.
  * `functions.monotonically_increasing_id() for functions.seq8()`.
  * `functions.from_unixtime() for functions.to_timestamp()`.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug in SQL simplifier that didn’t handle Column alias and join well in some cases.
  See <https://github.com/snowflakedb/snowpark-python/issues/658> for details.
* Fixed a bug in SQL simplifier that generated wrong column names for function calls, NaN and INF.

### Improvements

* The session parameter `PYTHON_SNOWPARK_USE_SQL_SIMPLIFIER` will be `True` after Snowflake 7.3 is released.
  In snowpark-python, `session.sql_simplifier_enabled` reads the value of `PYTHON_SNOWPARK_USE_SQL_SIMPLIFIER` by
  default, meaning that the SQL simplifier is enabled by default after the Snowflake 7.3 release. To turn this off,
  set `PYTHON_SNOWPARK_USE_SQL_SIMPLIFIER` in Snowflake to False or run `session.sql_simplifier_enabled = False` from
  Snowpark. It is recommended to use the SQL simplifier because it helps to generate more concise SQL.
