# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/clients-drivers/snowpark-python-2026.md

# Snowpark Library for Python release notes for 2026

This article contains the release notes for the [Snowpark Library for Python](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/index.md), including the following when applicable:

* Behavior changes
* New features
* Customer-facing bug fixes

Snowflake uses semantic versioning for [Snowpark Library for Python](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/index.md) updates.

See [Snowpark Developer Guide for Python](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/index.md) for documentation.

> **Warning:**
>
> Because Python 3.8 has reached its [End of Life](https://devguide.python.org/versions/), deprecation warnings will be triggered when you use `snowpark-python` with Python 3.8. For more information, see [Snowflake Python Runtime Support](../../developer-guide/python-runtime-support-policy.md). Snowpark Python 1.24.0 will be the last client and server version to support Python 3.8, in accordance with [Anaconda’s policy](https://forum.anaconda.com/t/python-3-8-reaches-end-of-life/87265). Upgrade your existing Python 3.8 objects to Python 3.9 or later.

## Version 1.47.0: Mar 05, 2026

### New features

* Added support for the `array_union_agg` function in the `snowflake.snowpark.functions` module.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug where `Session.udf.register_from_file` did not properly process the `strict` and `secure` parameters.
* Fixed a bug where an error is raised on a string value in `DecimalType` column when creating a DataFrame with small data (< array binding threshold).
* Reverted the following improvements introduced in 1.46.0 as they caused unintended breaking changes in some query patterns:

  > * Reduced the size of queries generated by certain `DataFrame.join` operations.
  > * Removed redundant aliases in generated queries (for example, `SELECT "A" AS "A"` is now always simplified to `SELECT "A"`).

## Version 1.46.0: Feb 25, 2026

### New features

* Added support for the `DECFLOAT` data type that allows users to represent decimal numbers exactly with 38 digits of precision and a dynamic base-10 exponent.
* Added support for the `DEFAULT_PYTHON_ARTIFACT_REPOSITORY` parameter that allows users to configure the default artifact repository at the account, database, and schema level.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug where `cloudpickle` was not automatically added to the package list when using `artifact_repository` with custom packages, causing `ModuleNotFoundError` at runtime.
* Fixed a bug when reading xml with custom schema that results in element attributes that are included when a column is not of the `StructType` type.
* Fixed a bug where `Session.udf.register_from_file` did not properly process the `strict` and `secure` parameters.

### Improvements

* Reduced the size of queries generated by certain `DataFrame.join` operations.
* Removed redundant aliases in generated queries (for example, `SELECT "A" AS "A"` is now always simplified to `SELECT "A"`).

## Version 1.45.0: Jan 26, 2026

### New features

* Allow user input schema when reading an XML file on a stage.
* Added support for the following functions in `functions.py`:

  > * `hex_decode_string`
  > * `jarowinkler_similarity`
  > * `parse_url`
  > * `regexp_instr`
  > * `regexp_like`
  > * `regexp_substr`
  > * `regexp_substr_all`
  > * `rtrimmed_length`
  > * `space`
  > * `split_part`
* Added the `preserve_parameter_names` flag to stored procedure, UDF, UDTF, and UDAF creation.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a bug where `opentelemetry` is not correctly imported when using `Session.client_telemetry.enable_event_table_telemetry_collection`.

### Improvements

* `snowflake.snowpark.context.configure_development_features` is effective for multiple sessions including newly created sessions after the configuration. There is no longer a duplicate experimental warning.
* Removed the experimental warning from `DataFrame.to_arrow` and `DataFrame.to_arrow_batches`.
* When both `Session.reduce_describe_query_enabled` and `Session.cte_optimization_enabled` are enabled, fewer `DESCRIBE` queries are issued when resolving a table schema.
