### Overview ¶

  

      
- Publishing
      
- Receiving
      
- Emulator
      
- Ack Deadlines
      
- Fine Tuning PubSub Receive Performance
      
- General tips
  

Package pubsub provides an easy way to publish and receive Google Cloud Pub/Sub
messages, hiding the details of the underlying server RPCs.
Pub/Sub is a many-to-many, asynchronous messaging system that decouples senders
and receivers.

If you are migrating from the v1 library, please read over the migration guide:
https://github.com/googleapis/google-cloud-go/blob/main/pubsub/MIGRATING.md

More information about Pub/Sub is available at
https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs.

See https://godoc.org/cloud.google.com/go for authentication, timeouts,
connection pooling and similar aspects of this package.

#### Publishing ¶

Pub/Sub messages are published to topics via publishers.
A Topic may be created like so:

```
ctx := context.Background()
client, _ := pubsub.NewClient(ctx, "my-project")
topic, err := client.TopicAdminClient.CreateTopic(ctx, &pubsubpb.Topic{
	Name: "projects/my-project/topics/my-topic",
})

```

A Publisher client can then be instantiated and used to publish messages.

```
publisher := client.Publisher(topic.GetName())
res := publisher.Publish(ctx, &pubsub.Message{Data: []byte("payload")})

```

Publisher.Publish queues the message for publishing and returns immediately. When enough
messages have accumulated, or enough time has elapsed, the batch of messages is
sent to the Pub/Sub service.

Publisher.Publish returns a PublishResult, which behaves like a future: its Get method
blocks until the message has been sent to the service.

The first time you call Publisher.Publish on a Publisher, goroutines are started in the
background. To clean up these goroutines, call Publisher.Stop:

```
publisher.Stop()

```

#### Receiving ¶

To receive messages published to a topic, clients create a subscription
for the topic. There may be more than one subscription per topic; each message
that is published to the topic will be delivered to all associated subscriptions.

You then need to create a Subscriber client to pull messages from a subscription.

A subscription may be created like so:

```
ctx := context.Background()
client, _ := pubsub.NewClient(ctx, "my-project")
subscription, err := client.SubscriptionAdminClient.CreateSubscription(ctx,
	&pubsubpb.Subscription{
		Name: "projects/my-project/subscriptions/my-sub",
		Topic: "projects/my-project/topics/my-topic"}
	),
}

```

A Subscriber client can be instantiated like so:

```
sub := client.Subscriber(subscription.GetName())

```

You then provide a callback to Subscriber which processes the messages.

```
err := sub.Receive(ctx, func(ctx context.Context, m *Message) {
	log.Printf("Got message: %s", m.Data)
	m.Ack()
})
if err != nil && !errors.Is(err, context.Canceled) {
	// Handle error.
}

```

The callback is invoked concurrently by multiple goroutines, maximizing
throughput. To terminate a call to Subscriber.Receive, cancel its context.

Once client code has processed the Message, it must call Message.Ack or
Message.Nack. If Ack is not called, the Message will eventually be redelivered. Ack/Nack
MUST be called within the Subscriber.Receive handler function, and not from a goroutine.
Otherwise, flow control (e.g. ReceiveSettings.MaxOutstandingMessages) will
not be respected. Additionally, messages can get orphaned when Receive is canceled,
resulting in slow redelivery.

If the client cannot or does not want to process the message, it can call Message.Nack
to speed redelivery. For more information and configuration options, see
Ack Deadlines below.

Note: It is possible for a Message to be redelivered even if Message.Ack has
been called unless exactly once delivery is enabled. Applications should be aware
of these deliveries.

Note: This uses pubsub's streaming pull feature. This feature has properties that
may be surprising. Please refer to https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/pull#streamingpull
for more details on how streaming pull behaves.

#### Emulator ¶

To use an emulator with this library, you can set the PUBSUB_EMULATOR_HOST
environment variable to the address at which your emulator is running. This will
send requests to that address instead of to Pub/Sub. You can then create
and use a client as usual:

```
// Set PUBSUB_EMULATOR_HOST environment variable.
err := os.Setenv("PUBSUB_EMULATOR_HOST", "localhost:8085")
if err != nil {
	// TODO: Handle error.
}
// Create client as usual.
client, err := pubsub.NewClient(ctx, "my-project-id")
if err != nil {
	// TODO: Handle error.
}
defer client.Close()

```

#### Ack Deadlines ¶

The default ack deadlines are suitable for most use cases, but may be
overridden. This section describes the tradeoffs that should be considered
when overriding the defaults.

Behind the scenes, each message returned by the Pub/Sub server has an
associated lease, known as an "ack deadline". Unless a message is
acknowledged within the ack deadline, or the client requests that
the ack deadline be extended, the message will become eligible for redelivery.

As a convenience, the pubsub client will automatically extend deadlines until
either:

  
- Message.Ack or Message.Nack is called, or
  
- The "MaxExtension" duration elapses from the time the message is fetched from
the server. This defaults to 60m.

Ack deadlines are extended periodically by the client. The period between extensions,
as well as the length of the extension, automatically adjusts based on the time it takes the
subscriber application to ack messages (based on the 99th percentile of ack latency).
By default, this extension period is capped at 10m, but this limit can be configured
by the Min/MaxDurationPerAckExtension settings. This has the effect that subscribers that process
messages quickly have their message ack deadlines extended for a short amount, whereas
subscribers that process message slowly have their message ack deadlines extended
for a large amount. The net effect is fewer RPCs sent from the client library.

For example, consider a subscriber that takes 3 minutes to process each message.
Since the library has already recorded several 3-minute "ack latencies"s in a
percentile distribution, future message extensions are sent with a value of 3
minutes, every 3 minutes. Suppose the application crashes 5 seconds after the
library sends such an extension: the Pub/Sub server would wait the remaining
2m55s before re-sending the messages out to other subscribers.

Please note that the client library does not use the subscription's
AckDeadline for the MaxExtension value.

#### Fine Tuning PubSub Receive Performance ¶

As the PubSub client receives messages from the PubSub server, it puts them into
the callback function passed to Receive. The user must Ack or Nack a message
in this function. Each invocation by the client of the passed-in callback occurs
in a goroutine; that is, messages are processed concurrently.

The buffer holds a maximum of MaxOutstandingMessages messages or MaxOutstandingBytes
bytes, and the client stops requesting more messages from the server whenever the buffer
is full. Messages in the buffer have an ack deadline; that is, the server keeps a
deadline for each outstanding message. When that deadline expires, the server considers
the message lost and redelivers the message. Each message in the buffer automatically has
its deadline periodically extended. If a message is held beyond its deadline,
for example if your program hangs, the message will be redelivered.

This medium post describes tuning Pub/Sub performance in more detail
https://medium.com/google-cloud/pub-sub-flow-control-batching-9ba9a75bce3b

- Subscription.ReceiveSettings.MaxExtension

This is the maximum amount of time that the client will extend a message's deadline.
This value should be set to the maximum expected processing time, plus some
buffer. It is fairly safe to set it quite high; the only downside is that it will take
longer to recover from hanging programs. The higher the extension allowed, the longer
it takes before the server considers messages lost and re-sends them to some
other, healthy instance of your application.

- Subscription.ReceiveSettings.MaxDurationPerAckExtension

This is the maximum amount of time to extend each message's deadline per
ModifyAckDeadline RPC. Normally, the deadline is determined by the 99th percentile
of previous message processing times. However, if normal processing time takes 10 minutes
but an error occurs while processing a message within 1 minute, a message will be
stuck and held by the client for the remaining 9 minutes. By setting the maximum amount
of time to extend a message's deadline on a per-RPC basis, you can decrease the amount
of time before message redelivery when errors occur. However, the downside is that more
ModifyAckDeadline RPCs will be sent.

- Subscription.ReceiveSettings.MinDurationPerAckExtension

This is the minimum amount of time to extend each message's deadline per
ModifyAckDeadline RPC. This is the complement setting of MaxDurationPerAckExtension and
represents the lower bound of modack deadlines to send. If processing time is very
low, it may be better to issue fewer ModifyAckDeadline RPCs rather than every
10 seconds. Setting both Min/MaxDurationPerAckExtension to the same value
effectively removes the automatic derivation of deadlines and fixes it to the value
you wish to extend your messages' deadlines by each time.

- Subscription.ReceiveSettings.MaxOutstandingMessages

This is the maximum number of messages that are to be processed by the callback
function at a time. Once this limit is reached, the client waits for messages
to be acked or nacked by the callback before requesting more messages from the server.

This value is set by default to a fairly conservatively low number. We strongly
encourage setting this number as high as memory allows, since a low setting will
artificially rate limit reception. Setting this value to -1 causes it to be unbounded.

- Subscription.ReceiveSettings.MaxOutstandingBytes

This is the maximum amount of bytes (message size) that are to be processed by
the callback function at a time. Once this limit is reached, the client waits
for messages to be acked or nacked by the callback before requesting more
messages from the server.

Note that there sometimes can be more bytes pulled and being processed than
MaxOutstandingBytes allows. This is due to the fact that the server
does not consider byte size when tracking server-side flow control.
For example, if the client sets MaxOutstandingBytes to 50 KiB, but receives
a batch of messages totaling 100 KiB, there will be a temporary overflow of
message byte size until messages are acked.

Similar to MaxOutstandingMessages, we recommend setting this higher to maximize
processing throughput. Setting this value to -1 causes it to be unbounded.

- Subscription.ReceiveSettings.NumGoroutines

This is the number of goroutines spawned to receive messages from the Pubsub server,
where each goroutine opens a StreamingPull stream. This setting affects the rate of
message intake from server to local buffer.

Setting this value to 1 is sufficient for many workloads. Each stream can handle about
10 MB/s of messages, so if your throughput is under this, set NumGoroutines=1.
Reducing the number of streams can improve the performance by decreasing overhead.
Currently, there is an issue where setting NumGoroutines greater than 1 results in poor
behavior interacting with flow control. Since each StreamingPull stream has its own flow
control, the server-side flow control will not match what is available locally.

Going above 100 streams can lead to increasingly poor behavior, such as acks/modacks not
succeeding in a reasonable amount of time, leading to message expiration. In these cases,
we recommend horizontally scaling by increasing the number of subscriber client applications.

#### General tips ¶

Each application should use a single PubSub client instead of creating many.
In addition, when publishing to a single topic, a publisher should be instantiated
once and reused to take advantage of flow control and batching capabilities.

    
### Index ¶

- Constants

- Variables

- 
        func NewMessageCarrierFromPB(msg *pb.PubsubMessage) propagation.TextMapCarrier

- 
          type AckResult

- 
          type AcknowledgeStatus

- 
          type Client

- 

  - 
            func NewClient(ctx context.Context, projectID string, opts ...option.ClientOption) (c *Client, err error)

  - 
            func NewClientWithConfig(ctx context.Context, projectID string, config *ClientConfig, ...) (*Client, error)

- 

  - 
            func (c *Client) Close() error

  - 
            func (c *Client) Project() string

  - 
            func (c *Client) Publisher(topicNameOrID string) *Publisher

  - 
            func (c *Client) Subscriber(nameOrID string) *Subscriber

- 
          type ClientConfig

- 
          type ErrPublishingPaused

- 

  - 
            func (e ErrPublishingPaused) Error() string

- 
          type FlowControlSettings

- 
          type LimitExceededBehavior

- 
          type Message

- 
          type PublishResult

- 
          type PublishSettings

- 
          type Publisher

- 

  - 
            func (t *Publisher) Flush()

  - 
            func (t *Publisher) ID() string

  - 
            func (t *Publisher) Publish(ctx context.Context, msg *Message) *PublishResult

  - 
            func (t *Publisher) ResumePublish(orderingKey string)

  - 
            func (t *Publisher) Stop()

  - 
            func (t *Publisher) String() string

- 
          type ReceiveSettings

- 
          type ShutdownBehavior

- 
          type ShutdownOptions

- 
          type Subscriber

- 

  - 
            func (s *Subscriber) ID() string

  - 
            func (s *Subscriber) Receive(ctx context.Context, f func(context.Context, *Message)) error

  - 
            func (s *Subscriber) String() string

    
### Examples ¶

- Client.Publisher

- NewClient

- Publisher.Publish

- Subscriber.Receive

- Subscriber.Receive (MaxExtension)

- Subscriber.Receive (MaxOutstanding)

### Constants ¶

  
    
      View Source
      

```
const (
	// MaxPublishRequestCount is the maximum number of messages that can be in
	// a single publish request, as defined by the PubSub service.
	MaxPublishRequestCount = 1000

	// MaxPublishRequestBytes is the maximum size of a single publish request
	// in bytes, as defined by the PubSub service.
	MaxPublishRequestBytes = 1e7
)
```

    
  

    
      View Source
      

```
const (
	// ScopePubSub grants permissions to view and manage Pub/Sub
	// topics and subscriptions.
	ScopePubSub = "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/pubsub"

	// ScopeCloudPlatform grants permissions to view and manage your data
	// across Google Cloud Platform services.
	ScopeCloudPlatform = "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-platform"
)
```

    
  

    
      View Source
      

```
const (
	// ShutdownBehaviorWaitForProcessing means the subscriber client will wait for
	// outstanding messages to be processed.
	ShutdownBehaviorWaitForProcessing = iota

	// ShutdownBehaviorNackImmediately means the subscriber client will nack all
	// outstanding messages before closing.
	ShutdownBehaviorNackImmediately
)
```

    
  

    
      View Source
      

```
const DetectProjectID = "*detect-project-id*"
```

    
  

DetectProjectID is a sentinel value that instructs NewClient to detect the
project ID. It is given in place of the projectID argument. NewClient will
use the project ID from the given credentials or the default credentials
(https://developers.google.com/accounts/docs/application-default-credentials)
if no credentials were provided. When providing credentials, not all
options will allow NewClient to extract the project ID. Specifically a JWT
does not have the project ID encoded.

  
### Variables ¶

  
    
      View Source
      

```
var (
	// ErrFlowControllerMaxOutstandingMessages indicates that outstanding messages exceeds MaxOutstandingMessages.
	ErrFlowControllerMaxOutstandingMessages = errors.New("pubsub: MaxOutstandingMessages flow controller limit exceeded")

	// ErrFlowControllerMaxOutstandingBytes indicates that outstanding bytes of messages exceeds MaxOutstandingBytes.
	ErrFlowControllerMaxOutstandingBytes = errors.New("pubsub: MaxOutstandingBytes flow control limit exceeded")
)
```

    
  

    
      View Source
      

```
var (
	// PublishedMessages is a measure of the number of messages published, which may include errors.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	PublishedMessages = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"published_messages", "Number of PubSub message published", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// PublishLatency is a measure of the number of milliseconds it took to publish a bundle,
	// which may consist of one or more messages.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	PublishLatency = stats.Float64(statsPrefix+"publish_roundtrip_latency", "The latency in milliseconds per publish batch", stats.UnitMilliseconds)

	// PullCount is a measure of the number of messages pulled.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	PullCount = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"pull_count", "Number of PubSub messages pulled", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// AckCount is a measure of the number of messages acked.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	AckCount = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"ack_count", "Number of PubSub messages acked", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// NackCount is a measure of the number of messages nacked.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	NackCount = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"nack_count", "Number of PubSub messages nacked", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// ModAckCount is a measure of the number of messages whose ack-deadline was modified.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	ModAckCount = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"mod_ack_count", "Number of ack-deadlines modified", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// ModAckTimeoutCount is a measure of the number ModifyAckDeadline RPCs that timed out.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	ModAckTimeoutCount = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"mod_ack_timeout_count", "Number of ModifyAckDeadline RPCs that timed out", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// StreamOpenCount is a measure of the number of times a streaming-pull stream was opened.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	StreamOpenCount = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"stream_open_count", "Number of calls opening a new streaming pull", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// StreamRetryCount is a measure of the number of times a streaming-pull operation was retried.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	StreamRetryCount = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"stream_retry_count", "Number of retries of a stream send or receive", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// StreamRequestCount is a measure of the number of requests sent on a streaming-pull stream.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	StreamRequestCount = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"stream_request_count", "Number gRPC StreamingPull request messages sent", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// StreamResponseCount is a measure of the number of responses received on a streaming-pull stream.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	StreamResponseCount = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"stream_response_count", "Number of gRPC StreamingPull response messages received", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// OutstandingMessages is a measure of the number of outstanding messages held by the client before they are processed.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	OutstandingMessages = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"outstanding_messages", "Number of outstanding Pub/Sub messages", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// OutstandingBytes is a measure of the number of bytes all outstanding messages held by the client take up.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	OutstandingBytes = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"outstanding_bytes", "Number of outstanding bytes", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// PublisherOutstandingMessages is a measure of the number of published outstanding messages held by the client before they are processed.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	PublisherOutstandingMessages = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"publisher_outstanding_messages", "Number of outstanding publish messages", stats.UnitDimensionless)

	// PublisherOutstandingBytes is a measure of the number of bytes all outstanding publish messages held by the client take up.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	PublisherOutstandingBytes = stats.Int64(statsPrefix+"publisher_outstanding_bytes", "Number of outstanding publish bytes", stats.UnitDimensionless)
)
```

    
  

The following are measures recorded in publish/subscribe flows.

    
      View Source
      

```
var (
	// PublishedMessagesView is a cumulative sum of PublishedMessages.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	PublishedMessagesView *view.View

	// PublishLatencyView is a distribution of PublishLatency.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	PublishLatencyView *view.View

	// PullCountView is a cumulative sum of PullCount.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	PullCountView *view.View

	// AckCountView is a cumulative sum of AckCount.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	AckCountView *view.View

	// NackCountView is a cumulative sum of NackCount.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	NackCountView *view.View

	// ModAckCountView is a cumulative sum of ModAckCount.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	ModAckCountView *view.View

	// ModAckTimeoutCountView is a cumulative sum of ModAckTimeoutCount.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	ModAckTimeoutCountView *view.View

	// StreamOpenCountView is a cumulative sum of StreamOpenCount.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	StreamOpenCountView *view.View

	// StreamRetryCountView is a cumulative sum of StreamRetryCount.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	StreamRetryCountView *view.View

	// StreamRequestCountView is a cumulative sum of StreamRequestCount.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	StreamRequestCountView *view.View

	// StreamResponseCountView is a cumulative sum of StreamResponseCount.
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	StreamResponseCountView *view.View

	// OutstandingMessagesView is the last value of OutstandingMessages
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	OutstandingMessagesView *view.View

	// OutstandingBytesView is the last value of OutstandingBytes
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	OutstandingBytesView *view.View

	// PublisherOutstandingMessagesView is the last value of OutstandingMessages
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	PublisherOutstandingMessagesView *view.View

	// PublisherOutstandingBytesView is the last value of OutstandingBytes
	// It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.
	PublisherOutstandingBytesView *view.View
)
```

    
  

    
      View Source
      

```
var (
	DefaultPublishViews   []*view.View
	DefaultSubscribeViews []*view.View
)
```

    
  

These arrays hold the default OpenCensus views that keep track of publish/subscribe operations.
It is EXPERIMENTAL and subject to change or removal without notice.

    
      View Source
      

```
var DefaultPublishSettings = PublishSettings{
	DelayThreshold: 10 * time.Millisecond,
	CountThreshold: 100,
	ByteThreshold:  1e6,
	Timeout:        60 * time.Second,
	FlowControlSettings: FlowControlSettings{
		MaxOutstandingMessages: 1000,
		MaxOutstandingBytes:    -1,
		LimitExceededBehavior:  FlowControlIgnore,
	},

	EnableCompression:         false,
	CompressionBytesThreshold: 240,
}
```

    
  

DefaultPublishSettings holds the default values for topics' PublishSettings.

    
      View Source
      

```
var DefaultReceiveSettings = ReceiveSettings{
	MaxExtension:               60 * time.Minute,
	MaxDurationPerAckExtension: 0,
	MinDurationPerAckExtension: 0,
	MaxOutstandingMessages:     1000,
	MaxOutstandingBytes:        1e9,
	NumGoroutines:              1,
}
```

    
  

DefaultReceiveSettings holds the default values for ReceiveSettings.

    
      View Source
      

```
var ErrEmptyProjectID = errors.New("pubsub: projectID string is empty")
```

    
  

ErrEmptyProjectID denotes that the project string passed into NewClient was empty.
Please provide a valid project ID or use the DetectProjectID sentinel value to detect
project ID from well defined sources.

    
      View Source
      

```
var ErrOversizedMessage = bundler.ErrOversizedItem
```

    
  

ErrOversizedMessage indicates that a message's size exceeds MaxPublishRequestBytes.

    
      View Source
      

```
var ErrPublisherStopped = errors.New("pubsub: Stop has been called for this publisher")
```

    
  

ErrPublisherStopped indicates that topic has been stopped and further publishing will fail.

  
### Functions ¶

  
	  
  
  
    
#### 
      func NewMessageCarrierFromPB ¶
  
    
  

    
    
      

```
func NewMessageCarrierFromPB(msg *pb.PubsubMessage) propagation.TextMapCarrier
```

    
  

NewMessageCarrierFromPB creates a propagation.TextMapCarrier that can be used to extract the trace
context from a protobuf PubsubMessage.

Example:
ctx = propagation.TraceContext{}.Extract(ctx, pubsub.NewMessageCarrierFromPB(msg))

  

        

  
### Types ¶

  
      
  
  
    
#### 
      type AckResult ¶
  
    
  

    
    
      

```
type AckResult = ipubsub.AckResult
```

    
  

AckResult holds the result from a call to Ack or Nack.

Call Get to obtain the result of the Ack/NackWithResult call. Example:

```
// Get blocks until Ack/NackWithResult completes or ctx is done.
ackStatus, err := r.Get(ctx)
if err != nil {
    // TODO: Handle error.
}

```

  

    
      
  
  
    
#### 
      type AcknowledgeStatus ¶
  
    
  

    
    
      

```
type AcknowledgeStatus = ipubsub.AcknowledgeStatus
```

    
  

AcknowledgeStatus represents the status of an Ack or Nack request.

    
      

```
const (
	// AcknowledgeStatusSuccess indicates the request was a success.
	AcknowledgeStatusSuccess AcknowledgeStatus = iota
	// AcknowledgeStatusPermissionDenied indicates the caller does not have sufficient permissions.
	AcknowledgeStatusPermissionDenied
	// AcknowledgeStatusFailedPrecondition indicates the request encountered a FailedPrecondition error.
	AcknowledgeStatusFailedPrecondition
	// AcknowledgeStatusInvalidAckID indicates one or more of the ack IDs sent were invalid.
	AcknowledgeStatusInvalidAckID
	// AcknowledgeStatusOther indicates another unknown error was returned.
	AcknowledgeStatusOther
)
```