# Source: https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security.md

# Enterprise security

- [IP allow lists](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/ip-allow-lists.md): How to restrict the IP allow list for SonarQube Cloud
- [Audit logs](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/audit-logs.md): The initial release of SonarQube Cloud's audit logs provides you with the essential data you need to meet your immediate compliance and security needs.
- [Single Sign-On](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso.md): This section explains the Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication solution in SonarQube Cloud and how to set it up.
- [About SSO authentication solution](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/about.md): This page provides an overview of the SSO authentication solution in SonarQube Cloud.
- [Automatic group synchronization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/about/automatic-group-synchronization.md): This page describes the automatic group synchronization solution in SonarQube Cloud.
- [Setting up SSO](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup.md): With the Enterprise plan, you can transition your SonarQube Cloud enterprise to Single Sign-On.
- [Step 1: Verify the user groups](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/verify-user-groups.md): Before configuring SSO for your SonarQube Cloud enterprise, you must ensure that the automatic group synchronization can take place properly.
- [Step 2: Configure SSO](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/configure-sso.md): The second step in configuring SSO for your SonarQube Cloud enterprise varies slightly, depending on your identity provider. If you use Okta or Microsoft Entra ID, go directly to the respective page.
- [Using the setup assistant (generic operation)](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/configure-sso/generic-operation.md): This page explains how to configure SSO with SonarQube Cloud’s setup assistant if you use another identity provider than Okta or Microsoft Entra ID.
- [SAML SSO with Okta](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/configure-sso/okta.md): This page explains how to setup SAML SSO with Okta and SonarQube Cloud's SSO setup assistant.
- [SAML SSO with Entra ID](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/configure-sso/microsoft-entra-id.md): This page explains how to configure SAML SSO in your enterprise with Microsoft Entra ID while using SonarQube Cloud's setup assistant.
- [Step 3: Invite users to sign in](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/inviting-users-to-sign-in.md): Once the SSO connection has been established, you can invite users to sign in to SonarQube Cloud with SSO by sending them the enterprise’s login URL.
- [Step 4: Terminate SSO setup](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/setup/terminate-setup.md): This page describes how to terminate your Single Sign-On (SSO) setup in SonarQube Cloud.
- [Editing SSO configuration](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/editing-sso-configuration.md): After setup, editing your SSO configuration in SonarQube Cloud is straight-forward.
- [Editing SSO configuration (old method)](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/editing-configuration-old-method.md): Editing your SSO configuration in SonarQube Cloud was recently improved using the SSO setup assistant. These pages outline the previous editing procedures (without the SSO setup assistant).
- [Introduction](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/editing-configuration-old-method/introduction.md): This page explains the generic steps necessary to edit the SAML SSO configuration you established in SonarQube Cloud using the older method (without the SSO setup assistant).
- [With Okta](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/editing-configuration-old-method/okta.md): This page explains how to edit the SAML SSO configuration you established in SonarQube Cloud with Okta and using the old method (without the SSO setup assistant).
- [With Microsoft Entra ID](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/editing-configuration-old-method/microsoft-entra-id.md): This page explains how to edit the SAML SSO configuration you established in SonarQube Cloud with Microsoft Entra ID while using the old method (without the SSO setup assistant).
- [Deleting SSO configuration](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/deleting-sso-configuration.md): As an enterprise admin, you can delete your enterprise’s SSO configuration in SonarQube Cloud either in the UI or via the Web API.
- [Troubleshooting SSO connection](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-enterprise/enterprise-security/sso/troubleshooting.md): Troubleshooting your SSO connection can be tricky. Here's a list of items to check in SonarQube Cloud and with your identity provider.
