# Source: https://docs.sonarsource.com/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization.md

# Managing your organization

- [Organization setup overview](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setup-overview.md): The procedure below explains how to set up your organization in SonarQube Cloud when your system uses DevOps platform (DOP) authentication.
- [Creating and editing your organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization.md): Creating and editing your SonarQube Cloud organization differs slightly depending on your DevOps platform or if you're creating it manually. These pages help you understand each step along the way.
- [Importing GitHub organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/importing-github-organization.md): This page helps you understand how to import your GitHub organization into SonarQube Cloud and explains key details about modifying the necessary repository access rights.
- [Importing Bitbucket workspace](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/importing-bitbucket-workspace.md): This page helps you understand how to import your Bitbucket workspace into SonarQube Cloud and explains prerequisites and key procedures.
- [Importing GitLab group](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/importing-gitlab-group.md): This page helps you understand how to import your GitLab group into SonarQube Cloud and explains prerequisites and key procedures.
- [Importing Azure DevOps organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/importing-azure-devops-organization.md): This page helps you understand how to import your Azure DevOps organization into SonarQube Cloud and explains prerequisites and key procedures.
- [Creating organization manually](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/creating-organization-manually.md): You can manually create your SonarQube Cloud organization manually however, you will not benefit from the advantages of binding your projects to a DevOps organization.
- [Changing organization binding](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/changing-organization-binding.md): You can use the workaround described on this page to change the binding of a SonarQube Cloud organization bound to a GitHub or Bitbucket organization.
- [Binding an unbound organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/binding-unbound-organization.md): Binding your unbound SonarQube Cloud organization is slightly different depending on your DevOps platform.
- [Security contact](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/security-contact.md): As an administrator of your organization you can set up a dedicated contact for urgent, security-related communications.
- [Changing organization settings](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/changing-organization-settings.md): SonarQube Cloud allows to change your organization key, requiring private-only projects, and change the token used to connect to GitLab or Azure DevOps organization.
- [Deleting organization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/deleting-organization.md): Organization administrators can delete an organization in SonarQube Cloud either from the "My Organizations" page or directly from the organization's administration settings.
- [Using multiple accounts](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/creating-organization/importing-from-multiple-platforms.md): This page explains that when importing an organization into SonarQube Cloud, the importing account automatically becomes an administrator; other accounts must be added manually.
- [Managing users and permissions](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/users-and-permissions.md): This section contains instructions to manage your organization's members, including user groups and permissions, and user account deletion.
- [Adding organization members](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/users-and-permissions/organization-members.md): This section explains how to add and remove members to and from a SonarQube Cloud organization.
- [Managing user groups](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/users-and-permissions/user-groups.md): SonarQube Cloud's user groups can be used to manage organization members and their permissions. This section explains how to manage user groups.
- [Managing organization permissions](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/users-and-permissions/organization-permissions.md): This section explains how to manage the permissions related to your SonarQube Cloud organization.
- [Disabling GitHub member synchronization](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/users-and-permissions/github-member-sync.md): When you import a GitHub organization to SonarQube Cloud, GitHub member synchronization is enabled by default provided Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication is not enabled.
- [User onboarding and offboarding](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/users-and-permissions/user-on-and-offboarding.md): User onboarding is automatic. You can only delete your own user account.
- [Performing global analysis setup](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level.md): When performing a global analysis in SonarQube Cloud, you can manage new code definition, long-lived branch pattern, analysis scope, and control your quality standards to apply to all new projects.
- [Introduction](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/introduction.md): With SonarQube Cloud Enterprise, your can define default settings for long-lived branch patterns, automatic analysis, and set your analysis scope, all of which can be overridden at the project level.
- [Setting new code definition](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/setting-new-code-definition-at-organization-level.md): SonarQube Cloud Project administrators can set the default the new code definition.
- [Setting long-lived branch pattern](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/setting-long-lived-branch-pattern.md): This section explains how to define a long-lived branches name pattern in SonarQube Cloud at your organization level.
- [Adjusting analysis scope](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/adjusting-analysis-scope.md): With the SonarQube Cloud Enterprise plan, you can set and adjust your analysis scope at the organization level.
- [Introduction](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/adjusting-analysis-scope/introduction.md): As an organization admin, you can define in the UI an analysis scope adjustment at the organization level.
- [Excluding from coverage or duplication](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/adjusting-analysis-scope/exclude-from-coverage-duplication.md): Excluding specific files from code coverage or duplication check can be defined at the organization level for your SonarQube Cloud organization.
- [Excluding files based on file paths](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/adjusting-analysis-scope/excluding-files-based-on-file-paths.md): To exclude files from your SonarQube Cloud project’s analysis scope based on file paths, you can define file exclusion parameters based on directory and file name patterns.
- [Using advanced exclusion features](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/adjusting-analysis-scope/advanced-exclusion-features.md): In very specific situations, you may have to define, at the organization level, the exclusion of code from the analysis using SonarQube Cloud's advanced exclusion features.
- [Disabling automatic analysis](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/disabling-automatic-analysis.md): This page explains how to disable the automatic analysis in SonarQube Cloud at the organization level.
- [Managing quality standards](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/setting-config-at-org-level/quality-standards.md): This page outlines how to manage organization-level quality standards in SonarQube Cloud, specifically focusing on the "quality gate fudge factor."
- [Managing organization's projects](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/manage-org-projects.md): Managing your SonarQube Cloud organization's projects involves using the Project Management page and understanding project permissions. This section also contains information about migrating projects.
- [Using Projects Management page](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/manage-org-projects/projects-management-page.md): As the organization admin, you can manage your organization’s SonarQube Cloud projects on a centralized page called the Projects management page.
- [Managing project permissions](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/manage-org-projects/manage-project-permissions.md): Managing project permissions in SonarQube Cloud involves using permission templates and restoring administrator access.
- [Using permission templates](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/manage-org-projects/manage-project-permissions/templates.md): As the organization admin in SonarQube Cloud, using permission templates allows you to define permissions granted by default on new projects and various sets of permissions.
- [Restoring administrator access](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/manage-org-projects/manage-project-permissions/recovering-admin-access.md): This page explains how to recover administrator access to a project of your SonarQube Cloud organization.
- [Migrating projects](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/manage-org-projects/migrate-projects-to-another-org.md): A SonarQube Cloud organization cannot be re-bound to another organization however, you can move projects if needed. This page explains how to migrate projects between organizations.
- [Managing Scoped Organization Tokens](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/scoped-organization-tokens.md): Scoped Organization Tokens provide a secure way to manage non-user-specific authentication.
- [Connecting to Slack](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/connecting-to-slack.md): With the SonarQube Cloud integration with Slack, users can receive real-time notifications on analysis results directly in Slack.
- [About SonarQube Cloud integration with Slack](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/connecting-to-slack/integration-overview.md): Understanding how the SonarQube Cloud integration with Slack works.
- [Setting up the connection to Slack](/sonarqube-cloud/administering-sonarcloud/managing-organization/connecting-to-slack/setup.md): How to install the SonarQube app for Slack in your workspace.
