# Source: https://docs.icepanel.io/other-information/glossary.md

# Glossary

<table><thead><tr><th width="278">Term</th><th width="485">Definition</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Accuracy score</td><td><p>A number score added to diagrams or objects that check if any reality links are out-of-date or inaccuracy comments have been added. </p><p></p><p>See <a data-mention href="../integrations/accuracy-score">accuracy-score</a> for more.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Actor</td><td>Level 1 in the C4 model - The end user who uses the systems.</td></tr><tr><td>App</td><td>Level 2 in the C4 model - A deployable &#x26;/or runable service or client that lives within a system (a type of C4 container - not Docker).</td></tr><tr><td>C4 model</td><td><p>A simple set of hierarchical abstractions and diagram types to communicate complex systems. Designed to be accessible to technical and non-technical people. </p><p></p><p>See <a data-mention href="../core-features/modelling">modelling</a> for more.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Component</td><td>Level 3 of the C4 model - The building blocks/modules that make up the container.</td></tr><tr><td>Diagram flow</td><td><p>A sequence of events flowing through an existing diagram - you can have multiple on 1 diagram. </p><p></p><p>See <a data-mention href="../visual-storytelling/flows">flows</a> for more.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Domain</td><td><p>Level 0 for the C4 model - An optional way to split up your model and related diagrams into logical groupings while keeping the benefits of a single shared model. </p><p></p><p>See <a data-mention href="../core-features/domains">domains</a> for more.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Draft</td><td><p>A diagram shows siloed changes that have not been merged into the main model—a great way to plan future architecture changes with multiple options without affecting all other diagrams. </p><p></p><p>See <a data-mention href="../future-state-design/draft-current-vs-future-state">draft-current-vs-future-state</a> for more.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Landscape</td><td><p>A landscape is a shared model and set of diagrams containing internal and external objects in your organization at varying levels of detail. </p><p></p><p>See <a data-mention href="../core-features/landscape">landscape</a> for more.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Landscape recommendations</td><td><p>A score to help polish your documentation and make them more easily understandable to your readers. </p><p></p><p>See <a data-mention href="../core-features/recommendation">recommendation</a> for more.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Model</td><td>The shared library of model objects, connections and meta data used to draw references from in the diagrams.</td></tr><tr><td>Model objects</td><td>The actors, systems, apps, stores and components used to describe how your system design works.</td></tr><tr><td>Organization</td><td>The owning group of everything you create in IcePanel including users, landscapes, models, model objects, diagrams.</td></tr><tr><td>Ownership team</td><td><p>Groups of users within your organization that can be assigned ownership of model objects. </p><p></p><p>See <a data-mention href="../ownership-teams">ownership-teams</a>for more.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Share link</td><td><p>Auto-updated URL share links of your design. </p><p></p><p>See <a data-mention href="../collaboration/sharing">sharing</a> for more.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Store</td><td>Level 2 in the C4 model - A deployable &#x26;/or runable database or store that lives within a system (a type of C4 container - not Docker).</td></tr><tr><td>System</td><td>Level 1 in the C4 model - The highest level of abstraction in the C4 model that delivers value to end users. Often owned by a development team.</td></tr><tr><td>Tag group</td><td><p>A group of metadata tags highlights different perspectives within the diagrams. </p><p></p><p>See <a data-mention href="../visual-storytelling/perspective-tags">perspective-tags</a> for more.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Tags</td><td><p>A metadata tag can be added to objects to visualize diagrams dynamically and filter the model. </p><p></p><p>See <a data-mention href="../visual-storytelling/perspective-tags">perspective-tags</a> for more.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Version</td><td><p>A frozen past version or current latest editable design of your landacape. </p><p></p><p>See <a data-mention href="../future-state-design/versioning">versioning</a> for more.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>
