---
rfc: 565
title: "Storing Network Survey Data at the Datacomputer"
date: August 1973
---
.1241 10-08-73 1557:21 OCSOP: (DEFAULT) OUTPUT PORT OPENED

TIME           STATUS             R.T.(1/10 SEC)
2004    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        019
2024    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        024
2044    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        021
2104    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        016
2124    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        046
2144    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        018
2204    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        017
2224    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        017
2244    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        023
2304    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        015
2324    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        016
2344    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        015
"END OF DATCOMPUTER OUTPUT"

The angle brackets, the material they enclose, and '$' (ESC or
altmode) were typed by a person using SURRET.  The remainder was
typed by the system.  The phrases in quotation marks are,
effectively, SURRET prompts.  The status messages beginning with ';'
and '.' were generated by the datacomputer.  The column headings and
table were formatted by SURRET using figures retrieved from the
datacomputer.

SURRET generates datalanguage, sends it to the datacomputer, and
processes systems diagnostics and data sent to it from the
datacomputer.  The datalanguage generated for the foregoing SURRET
request was:

FOR |SURVEY.LOGTRY, SURVEY.LOGTRY WITH
((YEAR EQ '73' AND MONTH EQ '08' AND DAY EQ '05')
AND (HRMIN GE '2000' AND HRMIN LE '2400')
AND (HOST EQ '013'))

```
   HRMIN=HRMIN ;  STATUS=STATUS  ;  RESTIME=RESTIME  ;
   END;

```

The field names in the datalanguage were entered with file
descriptors before the first data was loaded.

One can ask SURRET to retrieve new data by changing the values of any
number of fields and issuing a new REQ (request).  The command

```
   <state> displays current values for the five prospective retrieval
   criteria.  Thus:

    <HOST (USC-44)>$
    "OK"
    <STATE>$
    !HOST: (USC-44)STATUS: () RESTIME: () DATE: (AUG 5 73)
      TIME: (BETWEEN 2000 2400)!

    <REQ ((TIME STATUS RESTIME))>$
    ;J205 10-08-73 1610:08 RHRUN: SUCCESSFUL COMPILATION
    .1241 10-08-73 1610:09 OCSOP: (DEFAULT) OUTPUT PORT OPENED

   TIME           STATUS             R.T.(1/10 SEC)
   2004    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        020
   2024    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        008
   2044    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        008
   2104    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        009
   2124    LOGGER NOT RESPONDING (LNR)   000
   2144    LOGGER NOT AVAILABLE(DEAD)    000
   2204    NCP NOT RESPONDING (NNR)      000
   2224    LOGGER NOT RESPONDING (LNR)   000
   2244    LOGGER NOT AVAILABLE (DEAD)   000
   2304    LOGGER NOT AVAILABLE (DEAD    000
   2324    NCP NOT RESPONDING (NNR)      000
   2344    LOGGER RESPONDING (UP)        007
   "END OF DATCOMPUTER OUTPUT"

```

We might have retrieved all of the foregoing output with:

```
         <HOST (CASE-10 OR USC-44)>

```

Moreover,

```
         <HOST (CASE-10 CCA OR USC-44)>

   would cause SURRET to access the database twice, once for information
   about Case-10, and then a second time for information about the
   remaining two hosts.

```

Detailed Survey data from July 10, 1973 forward is available either
directly from the datacomputer or through SURRET.  Persons who wish
to use the datacomputer directly may obtain the pertinent documents
through the NIC or by contacting Dale Stern at CCA (617-491-3670).

Endnotes

[1] An overview of the data computer is given in Thomas Marill, The
Datacomputer, 18 Oct '71, 7pp. (NIC 7979).  A detailed study of the
programming language for addressing the datacomputer is found in
Computer Corporation of America, Datacomputer Project Working Paper
No. 3, Datalanguage, 29 Oct '71, 78 pp. (NIC 8208).  The current
status of the language is reviewed in Richard Winter, Specifications
for Datalanguage, Version 0/9, 6 Jun '73, 36 pp. (NIC 16446).  A
user's manual for version 0/9, will be released by CCA in September,
1973.

[2] SURVEY is described in Abhay Bhushan, A Report on the Survey
Project, 22 June '73 (NIC 17375).

[3] A detailed discussion of SURRET is found in Safwan Bengelloun,
MUDDLE Survey Data Retrieval Programs, an internal DMS memo of 14
June, '73.  Our purpose here is to describe enough of the program's
syntax and structure to show how it interacts with the datacomputer.

[ This RFC was put into machine readable form for entry ]
[ into the online RFC archives by Via Genie 08/00]
