---
rfc: 1399
date: January 1997
category: Informational
---

## 802.3. Repeater Devices

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing IEEE 802.3 10 Mb/second
baseband repeaters, sometimes referred to as "hubs".  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1367. Topolcic      Oct 92   Schedule for IP Address Space

Management Guidelines

This memo suggests a schedule for the implementation of the IP network
number allocation plan described in RFC 1366.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.

# 1366. Gerich        Oct 92   Guidelines for Management of IP Address

Space

This document has been reviewed by the Federal Engineering Task Force
(FEPG) on behalf of the Federal Networking Council (FNC), the co-chairs
of the International Engineering Planning Group (IEPG), and the Reseaux
IP Europeens (RIPE).  There was general consensus by those groups to
support the recommendations proposed in this document for management of
the IP address space.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

# 1365. Siyan         Spt 92   An IP Address Extension Proposal

This RFC suggests an extension to the IP protocol to solve the shortage
of IP address problem, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

# 1364. Varadhan      Spt 92   BGP OSPF Interaction

This memo defines the various criteria to be used when designing
Autonomous System Border Routers (ASBR) that will run BGP with other
ASBRs external to the AS and OSPF as its IGP.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1363. Partridge     Spt 92   A Proposed Flow Specification

The flow specification defined in this memo is intended for information
and possible experimentation (i.e., experimental use by consenting
routers and applications only).  This RFC is a product of the Internet
Research Task Force (IRTF).  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

# 1362. Allen         Spt 92   Novell IPX Over Various WAN Media

(IPXWAN)

This document describes how Novell IPX operates over various WAN media.
Specifically, it describes the common "IPX WAN" protocol Novell uses to
exchange necessary router to router information prior to exchanging
standard IPX routing information and traffic over WAN datalinks.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.

# 1361. Mills         Aug 92   Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP)

This memorandum describes the Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP), which
is an adaptation of the Network Time Protocol (NTP) used to synchronize
computer clocks in the Internet.  This memorandum does not obsolete or
update any RFC.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

# 1360. I.A.B.        Spt 92   IAB OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS

Discussion of the standardization process and the RFC document series is
presented first, followed by an explanation of the terms.  Sections 6.2
- 6.9 contain the lists of protocols in each stage of standardization.
Finally come pointers to references and contacts for further
information.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1359. ACM SIGUCCS   Aug 92   Connecting to the Internet

What Connecting Institutions Should
Anticipate

This FYI RFC outlines the major issues an institution should consider in
the decision and implementation of a campus connection to the Internet.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.

# 1358. Chapin        Aug 92   Charter of the Internet Architecture

Board (IAB)

The Internet Architecture Board (IAB) shall be constituted and shall
operate as a technical advisory group of the Internet Society.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.

# 1357. Cohen         Jul 92   A Format for E-mailing Bibliographic

Records

This memo defines a format for E-mailing bibliographic records of
technical reports.  It is intended to accelerate the dissemination of
information about new Computer Science Technical Reports (CS-TR).  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.

# 1356. Malis         Aug 92   Multiprotocol Interconnect

on X.25 and ISDN in the Packet Mode

This document specifies the encapsulation of IP and other network layer
protocols over X.25 networks, in accordance and alignment with ISO/IEC
and CCITT standards.  It is a replacement for RFC 877, "A Standard for
the Transmission of IP Datagrams Over Public Data Networks" [1].
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1355. Curran        Aug 92   Privacy and Accuracy Issues in Network

Information Center Databases

This document provides a set of guidelines for the administration and
operation of public Network Information Center (NIC) databases.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.

# 1354. Baker         Jul 92   IP Forwarding Table MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing routes in the IP Internet.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1353. McCloghrie    Jul 92   Definitions of Managed Objects

for Administration of SNMP Parties

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it describes a representation of the SNMP parties defined in
[8] as objects defined according to the Internet Standard SMI [1].
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1352. Galvin        Jul 92   SNMP Security Protocols

The Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) specification [1] allows
for the protection of network management operations by a variety of
security protocols.  The SNMP administrative model described in [2]
provides a framework for securing SNMP network management. In the
context of that framework, this memo defines protocols to support the
following three security services: data integrity, data origin
authentication and data confidentiality.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1351. Davin         Jul 92   SNMP Administrative Model

This memo presents an elaboration of the SNMP administrative model set
forth in [1]. This model provides a unified conceptual basis for
administering SNMP protocol entities to support: authenticaiton and
integrity, privacy, access control, and cooperation of protocol
entities.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1350. Sollins       Jul 92   THE TFTP PROTOCOL (REVISION 2)

TFTP is a very simple protocol used to transfer files.  It is from this
that its name comes, Trivial File Transfer Protocol or TFTP.  Each
nonterminal packet is acknowledged separately.  This document describes
the protocol and its types of packets.  The document also explains the
reasons behind some of the design decisions.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1349. Almquist       Jul 92   Type of Service in the Internet

Protocol Suite

This memo changes and clarifies some aspects of the semantics of the
Type of Service octet in the Internet Protocol (IP) header.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1348. Manning       Jul 92   DNS NSAP RRs

This RFC defines the format of two new Resource Records (RRs) for the
Domain Name System (DNS), and reserves corresponding DNS type mnemonic
and numerical codes.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.

# 1347. Callon        Jun 92   TCP and UDP with bigger Addresses

(TUBA), A Simple Proposal for Internet
Addressing and Routing

This paper describes a simple proposal which provides a long-term
solution to Internet addressing, routing, and scaling.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community. It does not specify an
Internet standard.

# 1346. Jones         Jun 92   Resource Allocation, Control, and

Accounting for the Use of Network
Resources

The purpose of this RFC is to focus discussion on particular challenges
in large service networks in general, and the International IP Internet
in particular.  No solution discussed in this document is intended as a
standard.  Rather, it is hoped that a general consensus will emerge as
to the appropriate solutions, leading eventually to the adoption of
standards.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard.

# 1345. Simonsen      Jun 92   Character Mnemonics & Character Sets

This memo lists a selection of characters and their presence in some
coded character sets.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

# 1344. Borenstein     Jun 92   Implicaitons of MIME for Internet Mail

Gateways

While MIME was carefully designed so that it does not require any
changes to Internet electronic message transport facilities, there are
several ways in which message transport systems may want to take
advantage of MIME.  These opportunities are the subject of this memo.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.

# 1343. Borenstein     Jun 92   A User Agent Configuration Mechanism

For Multimedia Mial Format Information

This memo suggests a file format to be used to inform multiple mail
reading user agent programs about the locally-installed facilities for
handling mail in various formats.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

1342    Moore          Jun 92   Representation of Non-ASCII Text in
Internet Message Headers

This memo describes an extension to the message format defined in [1]
(known to the IETF Mail Extensions Working Group as "RFC 1341"), to
allow the representation of character sets other than ASCII in RFC 822
message headers.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1341. Borenstein     Jun 92   MIME: Mechanisms for Specifying and

Describing the Format of Internet
Message Bodies

This document redefines the format of message bodies to allow multi-part
textual and non-textual message bodies to be represented and exchanged
without loss of information.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1340. Reynolds       Jul 92   ASSIGNED NUMBERS

This Network Working Group Request for Comments documents the currently
assigned values from several series of numbers used in network protocol
implementations. This memo is a status report on the parameters (i.e.,
numbers and keywords) used in protocols in the Internet community.

# 1339. Dorner         Jun 92   Remote Mail Checking Protocol

This RFC defines a protocol to provide a mail checking service to be
used between a client and server pair. Typically, a small program on a
client workstation would use the protocol to query a server in order to
find out whether new mail has arrived for a specified user.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.

# 1338. Fuller         Jun 92   Supernetting: an Address Assignment

and Aggregation Strategy

This memo discusses strategies for address assignment of the existing IP
address space with a view to conserve the address space and stem the
explosive growth of routing tables in default-route-free routers run by
transit routing domain providers.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community. It does not specify an Internet standard.

# 1337. Braden         May 92   TIME-WAIT Assassination Hazards in TCP

This note describes some theoretically-possible failure modes for TCP
connections and discusses possible remedies.  In particular, one very
simple fix is identified.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

# 1336. Malkin         May 92   Who's Who in the Internet

Biographies of IAB, IESG and
IRSG Members

This FYI RFC contains biographical information about members of the
Internet Activities Board (IAB), the Internet Engineering Steering Group
(IESG) of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), and the the
Internet Research Steering Group (IRSG) of the Internet Research Task
Force (IRTF).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify any standard.

1335    Wang           May 92   A Two-Tier Address Structure for the
Internet:  A Solution to the Problem
of Address Space Exhaustion

This RFC presents a solution to problem of address space exhaustion in
the Internet.  It proposes a two-tier address structure for the
Internet.  This is an "idea" paper and discussion is strongly
encouraged.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard.

1334    Lloyd          Oct 92   PPP Authentication Protocols

This document defines two protocols for Authentication: the Password
Authentication Protocol and the Challenge-Handshake Authentication
Protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1333. Simpson        May 92   PPP Link Quality Monitoring

The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) [1] provides a standard method of
encapsulating Network Layer protocol information over point-to-point
links.  PPP also defines an extensible Link Control Protocol, which
allows negotiation of a Quality Protocol for continuous monitoring of
the viability of the link.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1332. McGregor       May 92   The PPP Internet Protocol Control

Protocol (IPCP)

The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) [1] provides a standard method of
encapsulating Network Layer protocol information over point-to-point
links.  PPP also defines an extensible Link Control Protocol, and
proposes a family of Network Control Protocols (NCPs) for establishing
and configuring different network-layer protocols.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1331. Simpson        May 92   The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP>

for the Transmission of Multi-protocol
Datagrams over Point-to-Point Links

This document defines the PPP encapsulation scheme, together with the
PPP Link Control Protocol (LCP), an extensible option negotiation
protocol which is able to negotiate a rich assortment of configuration
parameters and provides additional management functions.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]

# 1330. E.S.C.C.       May 92   Recommendations for the Phase I

Deployment of OSI Directory Services
(X.500) and OSI Message Handling
Services <X.400) within the ESnet
Community

This RFC is a near verbatim copy of the whitepaper produced by the ESnet
Site Coordinating Committee's X.500/X.400 Task Force.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.

1329    Kuehn          May 92   Thoughts on Address Resolution for
Dual MAC FDDI Networks

In this document an idea is submitted how IP and ARP can be used on
inhomogeneous FDDI networks (FDDI networks with single MAC and dual MAC
stations) by introducing a new protocol layer in the protocol suite of
the dual MAC stations.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

1328    Kille          May 92   X.400 1988 to 1984 downgrading

This document considers issues of downgrading from X.400(1988) to
X.400(1984) [MHS88a, MHS84].  Annexe B of X.419 specifies some
downgrading rules [MHS88b], but these are not sufficient for provision
of service in an environment containing both 1984 and 1988 components.
This document defines a number of extensions to this annexe.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

1327    Kille          May 92   Mapping between X.400(1988) / ISO

# 10021. and RFC 822

This document specifies a mapping between two protocols.  This
specification should be used when this mapping is performed on the DARPA
Internet or in the UK Academic Community.  This specification may be
modified in the light of implementation experience, but no substantial
changes are expected.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1326. Tsuchiya       May 92   Mutual Encapsulation Considered

Dangerous

This memo describes a packet explosion problem that can occur with
mutual encapsulation of protocols (A encapsulates B and B encapsulates
A).  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does
not specify an Internet standard.

# 1325. Malkin         May 92   FYI on Questions and Answers

Answers to Commonly asked "New
Internet User" Questions

This FYI RFC is one of two FYI's called, "Questions and Answers" (Q/A),
produced by the User Services Working Group of the Internet Engineering
Task Force (IETF).  The goal is to document the most commonly asked
questions and answers in the Internet.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

1324    Reed           May 92   A Discussion on Computer Network
Conferencing

This memo is intended to make more people aware of the present
developments in the Computer Conferencing field as well as put forward
ideas on what should be done to formalize this work so that there is a
common standard for programmers and others who are involved in this
field to work with.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

# 1323. Jacobson       May 92   TCP Extensions for High Performance

This memo presents a set of TCP extensions to improve performance over
large bandwidth*delay product paths and to provide reliable operation
over very high-speed paths.  It defines new TCP options for scaled
windows and timestamps, which are designed to provide compatible
interworking with TCP's that do not implement the extensions.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1322. Estrin         May 92   A Unified Approach to Inter-Domain

Routing

This memo is an informational RFC which outlines one potential approach
for inter-domain routing in future global internets.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.

# 1321. Rivest         Apr 92   The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm

This document describes the MD5 message-digest algorithm. The algorithm
takes as input a message of arbitrary length and produces as output a
128-bit "fingerprint" or "message digest" of the input.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.

# 1320. Rivest         Apr 92   The MD4 Message-Digest Algorithm

This document describes the MD4 message-digest algorithm [1]. The
algorithm takes as input a message of arbitrary length and produces as
output a 128-bit "fingerprint" or "message digest" of the input.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.

# 1319. Kaliski        Apr 92   The MD2 Message-Digest Algorithm

This document describes the MD2 message-digest algorithm. The algorithm
takes as input a message of arbitrary length and produces as output a
128-bit "fingerprint" or "message digest" of the input.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.

# 1318. Stewart        Apr 92   Definitions of Managed Objects

for Parallel-printer-like Hardware
Devices

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for the management of parallel-printer-
like devices.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1317. Stewart        Apr 92   Definitions of Managed Objects for

RS-232-like Hardware Devices

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for the management of RS-232-like
devices.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1316. Stewart        Apr 92   Definitions of Managed Objects

for Character Stream Devices

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP based internets.  In
particular it defines objects for the management of character stream
devices. [STANDARDS-TRACK]

1315    Brown          Apr 92   Management Information Base for Frame
Relay DTEs

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing Frame Relay.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]

1314    Katz           Apr 92   A File Format for the Exchange of
Images in the Internet

This document defines a standard file format for the exchange of fax-
like black and white images within the Internet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1313. Partridge      Apr 92   Today's Programming for KRFC AM 1313

Internet Talk Radio

Hi and welcome to KRFC Internet Talk Radio, your place on the AM dial
for lively talk and just-breaking news on internetworking.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.

# 1312. Nelson         Apr 92   Message Send Protocol 2

The Message Send Protocol is used to send a short message to a given
user on a given terminal on a given host.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.

# 1311. Postel         Mar 92   Introduction to the STD Notes

The STDs are a subseries of notes within the RFC series that are the
Internet standards.  The intent is to identify clearly for the Internet
community those RFCs which document Internet standards.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]

# 1310. I.A.B.         Mar 92   The Internet Standards Process

This memo documents the process currently used for the standardization
of Internet protocols and procedures.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1309. Weider         Mar 92   Technical Overview of Directory

Services Using the X.500 Protocol

This document is an overview of the X.500 standard for people not
familiar with the technology. It compares and contrasts Directory
Services based on X.500 with several of the other Directory services
currently in use in the Internet. This paper also describes the status
of the standard and provides references for further information on X.500
implementations and technical information.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community. It does not specify an Internet
standard.

# 1308. Weider         Mar 92   Executive Introduction to Directory

Services Using the X.500 Protocol

This document is an Executive Introduction to Directory Services using
the X.500 protocol. It briefly discusses the deficiencies in currently
deployed Internet Directory Services, and then illustrates the solutions
provided by X.500.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community. It does not specify an Internet standard.

1307    Young          Mar 92   Dynamically Switched Link Control
Protocol

This memo describes an experimental protocol developed by a project team
at Cray Research, Inc., in implementing support for circuit-switched T3
services.  The protocol is used for the control of network connections
external to a host, but known to the host.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.

# 1306. Nicholson      Mar 92   Experiences Supporting By-Request

Circuit-Switched T3 Networks

This memo describes the experiences of a project team at Cray Research,
Inc., in implementing support for circuit-switched T3 services.  While
the issues discussed may not be directly relevant to the research
problems of the Internet, they may be interesting to a number of
researchers and implementers.  This RFC provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

1305   Mills           Mar 92   Network Time Protocol (Version 3):
Specification, Implementation and
Analysis

This document describes the Network Time Protocol (NTP), specifies its
formal structure and summarizes information useful for its
implementation.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

1304    Cox            Feb 92   Definitions of Managed Objects for the
SIP Interface Type

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing SIP (SMDS Interface
Protocol) objects.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1303. McCloghrie     Feb 92   A Convention for Describing SNMP-based

Agents

This memo suggests a straight-forward approach towards describing SNMP-
based agents.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

# 1302. Sitzler        Feb 92   Building a Network Information

Services Infrastructure

This FYI RFC document is intended for existing Internet Network
Information Center (NIC) personnel, people interested in establishing a
new NIC, Internet Network Operations Centers (NOCs), and funding
agencies interested in contributing to user support facilities.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.

# 1301. Armstrong      Feb 92   Multicast Transport Protocol

This memo describes a protocol for reliable transport that utilizes the
multicast capability of applicable lower layer networking architectures.
The transport definition permits an arbitrary number of transport
providers to perform realtime collaborations without requiring
networking clients (aka, applications) to possess detailed knowledge of
the population or geographical dispersion of the participating members.
It is not network architectural specific, but does implicitly require
some form of multicasting (or broadcasting) at the data link level, as
well as some means of communicating that capability up through the
layers to the transport.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

# 1300. Greenfield     Feb 92   Remembrances of Things Past

Poem.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It
does not specify an Internet standard.

# Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

# Author's Address

Josh Elliott
University of Southern California
Information Sciences Institute
4676 Admiralty Way
Marina del Rey, CA 90292

Phone:  (310) 822-1511

EMail: elliott@isi.edu
