---
rfc: 1199
date: December 1991
---

## 802.2. Packets over IPX Networks

This document specifies a standard method of encapsulating 802.2 packets
on networks supporting Novell's Internet Packet Exchange Protocol (IPX).
It obsoletes earlier documents detailing the transmission of Internet

packets over IPX networks.  It differs from these earlier documents in
that it allows for the transmission of multiple network protocols over
IPX and for the transmission of packets through IPX bridges.

1131    Moy          Oct 89   The OSPF Specification

This RFC is the specification of the Open Shortest Path First (OSPF)
Internet routing protocol.  OSPF is in the class of Internal Gateway
Protocols (IGPs) for distributing routing information between gateways
of a single Autonomous System.  This routing protocol is based on the
link-state approach (in contrast to the distance-vector approach).  This
specification was developed by the OSPF Working Group of the Internet
Engineering Task Force.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1130. Postel       Oct 89   IAB Official Protocol Standards

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Activities Board (IAB).

# 1129. Mills        Oct 89   Internet Time Synchronization:

the Network Time Protocol

This memo describes the Network Time Protocol (NTP) designed to
distribute time information in a large, diverse internet system
operating at speeds from mundane to lightwave.  It uses a returnable-
time architecture in which a distributed subnet of time servers
operating in a self-organizing, hierarchical, master-slave configuration
synchronizes local clocks within the subnet and to national time
standards via wire or radio.  The servers can also redistribute time
information within a network via local routing algorithms and time
daemons.

The architectures, algorithms and protocols which have evolved to NTP
over several years of implementation and refinement are described in
this paper.  The synchronization subnet which has been in regular
operation in the Internet for the last several years is described along
with performance data which shows that timekeeping accuracy throughout
most portions of the Internet can be ordinarily maintained to within a
few tens of milliseconds, even in cases of failure or disruption of
clocks, time servers or networks.

This memo describes the Network Time Protocol in RFC-1119.

# 1128. Mills        Oct 89   Measured Performance of the Network Time

Protocol in the Internet System

This paper describes a series of experiments involving over 100,000
hosts of the Internet system and located in the U.S., Europe and the
Pacific.  The experiments are designed to evaluate the availability,
accuracy and reliability of international standard time distribution
using the DARPA/NSF Internet and the Network Time Protocol (NTP), which
is specified in RFC-1119.  NTP is designed specifically for use in a
large, diverse internet system operating at speeds from mundane to
lightwave.  In NTP a distributed subnet of time servers operating in a
self-organizing, hierarchical, master-slave configuration exchange
precision timestamps in order to synchronize subnet clocks to each other
and national time standards via wire or radio.

The experiments are designed to locate Internet hosts and gateways that
provide time by one of three time distribution protocols and evaluate
the accuracy of their indications.  For those hosts that support NTP,
the experiments determine the distribution of errors and other
statistics over paths spanning major portions of the globe.  Finally,
the experiments evaluate the accuracy and reliability of precision
timekeeping using NTP and typical Internet paths involving DARPA, NSFNET
and other agency networks.  The experiments demonstrate that timekeeping
accuracy throughout most portions of the Internet can be ordinarily
maintained to within a few tens of milliseconds, even in cases of
failure or disruption of clocks, time servers or networks.

This memo does not specify a standard.

# 1127. Braden       Oct 89   Perspective on Host Requirements

This RFC is for information only; it does not constitute a standard,
draft standard, or proposed standard, and it does not define a protocol.

# 1126. Little       Oct 89   Goals and Functional Requirements for

Inter-Autonomous System Routing

This document describes the functional requirements for a routing
protocol to be used between autonomous systems.  This document is
intended as a necessary precursor to the design of a new inter-
autonomous system routing protocol and specifies requirements for the
Internet applicable for use with the current DoD IP, the ISO IP, and
future Internet Protocols.  It is intended that these requirements will
form the basis for the future development of a new inter-autonomous
systems routing architecture and protocol. This memo does not specify a
standard.

# 1125. Estrin       Nov 89   Policy Requirements for Inter

Administrative Domain Routing

The purpose of this memo is to focus discussion on particular problems
in the Internet and possible methods of solution.  No proposed solutions
in this document are intended as standards for the Internet.  Rather, it
is hoped that a general consensus will emerge as to the appropriate
solution to such problems, leading eventually to the development and
adoption of standards.

# 1124. Leiner       Sep 89   Policy Issues in Interconnecting Networks

To support the activities of the Federal Research Internet Coordinating
Committee (FRICC) in creating an interconnected set of networks to serve
the research community, two workshops were held to address the technical
support of policy issues that arise when interconnecting such networks.
Held under the suspices of the Internet Activities Board at the request
of the FRICC, and sponsored by NASA through RIACS, the workshops
addressed the required and feasible technologies and architectures that
could be used to satisfy the desired policies for interconnection.  The
purpose of this RFC is to report the results of these workshops.

# 1123. Braden       Oct 89   Requirements for Internet Hosts --

Application and Support

This RFC is an official specification for the Internet community.  It
incorporates by reference, amends, corrects, and supplements the primary
protocol standards documents relating to hosts.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1122. Braden       Oct 89   Requirements for Internet Hosts --

Communication Layers

This RFC is an official specification for the Internet community.  It
incorporates by reference, amends, corrects, and supplements the primary
protocol standards documents relating to hosts.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1121. Postel       Sep 89   Act One - The Poems

This RFC presents a collection of poems that were presented at "Act
One", a symposium held partially in celebration of the 20th anniversary
of the ARPANET.

# 1120. Cerf         Sep 89   The Internet Activities Board

This RFC provides a history and description of the Internet Activities
Board (IAB) and its subsidiary organizations.  This memo is for
informational use and does not constitute a standard.

# 1119. Mills        Sep 89   Network Time Protocol (Version 2)

Specification and Implementation

This document describes the Network Time Protocol (NTP), specifies its
formal structure and summarizes information useful for its
implementation.  NTP provides the mechanisms to synchronize time and
coordinate time distribution in a large, diverse internet operating at
rates from mundane to lightwave.  It uses a returnable-time design in
which a distributed subnet of time servers operating in a self-
organizing, hierarchical-master-slave configuration synchronizes local
clocks within the subnet and to national time standards via wire or
radio.  The servers can also redistribute reference time via local
routing algorithms and time daemons.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1118. Krol         Sep 89   The Hitchhikers Guide to the Internet

This RFC is being distributed to members of the Internet community in
order to make available some "hints" which will allow new network
participants to understand how the direction of the Internet is set, how
to acquire online information and how to be a good Internet neighbor.
While the information discussed may not be relevant to the research
problems of the Internet, it may be interesting to a number of
researchers and implementors.  No standards are defined or specified in
this memo.

# 1117. Romano       Aug 89   Internet Numbers

This memo is an official status report on the network numbers and the
autonomous system numbers used in the Internet community.

# 1116. Borman       Aug 89   Telnet Linemode Option

Hosts on the Internet that support Linemode within the Telnet protocol
are expected to adopt and implement this protocol.  Obsoleted by RFC
1184.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1115. Linn         Aug 89   Privacy Enhancement for Internet

Electronic Mail: Part III --
Algorithms, Modes, and Identifiers

This RFC provides definitions, references, and citations for
algorithms, usage modes, and associated identifiers used in RFC-1113
and RFC-1114 in support of privacy-enhanced electronic mail.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1114. Kent         Aug 89   Privacy Enhancement for Internet

Electronic Mail: Part II --
Certificate-Based Key Management

This RFC specifies the key management aspects of Privacy Enhanced Mail.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1113. Linn         Aug 89   Privacy Enhancement for Internet

Electronic Mail: Part I -- Message
Encipherment and Authentication
Procedures

This RFC specifies features for private electronic mail based on
encryption technology.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1112. Deering      Aug 89   Host Extensions for IP Multicasting

This memo specifies the extensions required of a host implementation of
the Internet Protocol (IP) to support multicasting.  Recommended
procedure for IP multicasting in the Internet.  This RFC obsoletes RFCs

# 998. and 1054.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1111. Postel       Aug 89   Request for Comments on Request for

Comments - Instructions to
RFC Authors

This RFC specifies a standard for the Internet community.  Authors of
RFCs are expected to adopt and implement this standard.

# 1110. McKenzie     Aug 89   A Problem with the TCP Big Window

Option

This memo comments on the TCP Big Window option described in RFC 1106.

# 1109. Cerf         Aug 89   Report of the Second Ad Hoc

Network Management Review Group

This RFC reports an official Internet Activities Board (IAB) policy
position on the treatment of Network Management in the Internet.  This
RFC presents the results and recommendations of the second Ad Hoc
Network Management Review on June 12, 1989.  The results of the first
such meeting were reported in RFC 1052.

# 1108. Kent         Nov 91   U.S. Department of Defense Security

Options for the Internet Protocol

This RFC specifies the U.S. Department of Defense Basic Security
Option and the top-level description of the Extended Security Option
for use with the Internet Protocol.  This RFC obsoletes RFC 1038,
"Revised IP Security Option", dated January 1988.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1107. Sollins      Jul 89   A Plan for Internet Directory Services

This memo proposes a program to develop a directory service for the
Internet.  It reports the results of a meeting held in February 1989,
which was convened to review requirements and options for such a
service.  This proposal is offered for comment, and does not represent a
committed research activity of the Internet community.

1106    Fox          Jun 89   TCP Big Window and Nak Options

This memo discusses two extensions to the TCP protocol to provide a more
efficient operation over a network with a high bandwidth*delay product.
The extensions described in this document have been implemented and
shown to work using resources at NASA.  This memo describes an
Experimental Protocol, these extensions are not proposed as an Internet
standard, but as a starting point for further research.

# 1105. Lougheed     Jun 89   A Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)

This RFC outlines a specific approach for the exchange of network
reachability information between Autonomous Systems.  Updated by RFCs

# 1163. and 1164.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1104. Braun        Jun 89   Models of Policy Based Routing

The purpose of this RFC is to outline a variety of models for policy
based routing.  The relative benefits of the different approaches are
reviewed.  Discussions and comments are explicitly encouraged to move
toward the best policy based routing model that scales well within a
large internetworking environment.

# 1103. Katz         Jun 89   A Proposed Standard for the Transmission

of IP Datagrams over FDDI Networks

This RFC specifies a method of encapsulating the Internet Protocol (IP)
datagrams and Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) requests and replies on
Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI) Networks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 1102. Clark        May 89   Policy Routing in Internet Protocols

The purpose of this RFC is to focus discussion on particular problems in
the Internet and possible methods of solution.  No proposed solutions in
this document are intended as standards for the Internet.

# 1101. Mockapetris  Apr 89   DNS Encoding of Network Names and

Other Types

This RFC proposes two extensions to the Domain Name System:

- A specific method for entering and retrieving RRs which map
between network names and numbers.

- Ideas for a general method for describing mappings between
arbitrary identifiers and numbers.

The method for mapping between network names and addresses is a proposed
standard, the ideas for a general method are experimental.

1100    IAB          Apr 89   IAB Official Protocol Standards

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Activities Board (IAB).  An
overview of the standards procedures is presented first, followed by
discussions of the standardization process and the RFC document series,
then the explanation of the terms is presented, the lists of protocols
in each stage of standardization follows, and finally pointers to
references and contacts for further information.

This memo is issued quarterly, please be sure the copy you are reading
is dated within the last three months.  Current copies may be obtained
from the Network Information Center or from the Internet Assigned
Numbers Authority (see the contact information at the end of this memo).
Do not use this memo after 31-July-89.

# Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

# Author's Address

Joyce K. Reynolds
University of Southern California
Information Sciences Institute
4676 Admiralty Way
Marina del Rey, CA 90292

Phone:  (310) 822-1511

EMail:  JKREY@ISI.EDU
