---
rfc: 1099
date: December 1991
---
802.3 (ethernet) and 802.5 (token ring) LAN's, X.25 lines, satellite
links, and serial lines.  There are standard encapsulations for IP
packets defined for many of these networks, but there is no standard for
serial lines.  SLIP, Serial Line IP, is a currently a de facto standard,
commonly used for point-to-point serial connections running TCP/IP.  It
is not an Internet standard.

# 1054. Deering        May 88      Host Extensions for IP Multicasting

This memo specifies the extensions required of a host implementation of
the Internet Protocol (IP) to support multicasting.  IP multicasting is
the transmission of an IP datagram to a "host group", a set hosts
identified by a single IP destination address.  A multicast datagram is
delivered to all members of its destination host group with the same
"best-efforts" reliability as regular unicast IP datagrams.  It is
proposed as a standard for IP multicasting in the Internet.  This
specification is a major revision of RFC-988.

1053    Levy           Apr 88       Telnet X.3 PAD Option

This RFC proposes a new option to Telnet for the Internet community, and
requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.

1052    Cerf           Apr 88      IAB Recommendations for the
Development of Internet Network
Management Standards

This RFC is intended to convey to the Internet community and other
interested parties the recommendations of the Internet Activities Board
(IAB) for the development of network management protocols for use in the
TCP/IP environment.  This memo does NOT, in and of itself, define or
propose an Official Internet Protocol.  It does reflect, however, the
policy of the IAB with respect to further network management development
in the short and long term.

# 1051. Prindeville     Mar 88     A Standard for the Transmission of IP

Datagrams and ARP Packets over ARCNET
Networks

This memo specifies a standard method of encapsulating Internet Protocol
(IP) and Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) datagrams on an ARCNET.  This
RFC is a standard protocol for the Internet community.

1050    Sun             Apr 88      RPC: Remote Procedure Call
Protocol Specification

This memo specifies a message protocol used in implementing Sun's Remote
Procedure Call (RPC) package.  This RFC describes a standard that Sun
Microsystems and others are using and is one they wish to propose for
the Internet's consideration.  It is not an Internet standard at this
time.

1049    Sirbu           Mar 88      A Content-Type Header Field for
Internet Messages

This memo suggests proposed additions to the Internet Mail Protocol,
RFC-822, for the Internet community, and requests discussion and
suggestions for improvements.

# 1048. Prindeville     Feb 88      BOOTP Vendor Information Extensions

This memo proposes an addition to the Bootstrap Protocol (BOOTP).
Comments and suggestions for improvements are sought.

# 1047. Partridge       Feb 88      Duplicate Messages and SMTP

An examination of a synchronization problem in the Simple Mail Transfer
Protocol (SMTP) is presented.  This synchronization problem can cause a
message to be delivered multiple times.  A method for avoiding this
problem is suggested.  Nodding familiarity with the SMTP specification,
RFC-821, is required.

1046    Prue            Feb 88      A Queuing Algorithm to Provide
Type-of-Service for IP Links

This memo is intended to explore how Type-of-Service might be
implemented in the Internet.  The proposal describes a method of queuing
which can provide the different classes of service.  The technique also
prohibits one class of service from consuming excessive resources or
excluding other classes of service.  This is an "idea paper" and
discussion is strongly encouraged.

# 1045. Cheriton        Feb 88      VMTP: Versatile Message Transaction

Protocol Protocol Specification

This memo specifies the Versatile Message Transaction Protocol (VMTP)
[Version 0.7 of 19-Feb-88], a transport protocol specifically designed
to support the transaction model of communication, as exemplified by
remote procedure call (RPC).  The full function of VMTP, including
support for security, real-time, asynchronous message exchanges,
streaming, multicast and idempotency, provides a rich selection to the
VMTP user level.  Subsettability allows the VMTP module for particular
clients and servers to be specialized and simplified to the services
actually required.  Examples of such simple clients and servers include
PROM network bootload programs, network boot servers, data sensors and
simple controllers, to mention but a few examples.  This RFC describes a
protocol proposed as a standard for the Internet community.

# 1044. Hardwick        Feb 88      Internet Protocol on Network Systems

HYPERchannel Protocol Specification

This memo intends to provide a complete discussion of the protocols and
techniques used to embed DoD standard Internet Protocol datagrams (and
its associated higher level protocols) on Network Systems Corporation's
HYPERchannel equipment.  This document is directed toward network
planners and implementors who are already familiar with the TCP/IP
protocol suite and the techniques used to carry TCP/IP traffic on common
networks such as the DDN or the Ethernet.  No great familiarity with NSC
products is assumed; an appendix is devoted to a review of NSC

technologies and protocols.

1043    Yasuda          Feb 88      TELNET Data Entry Terminal Option
DODIIS Implementation

This RFC suggests a proposed protocol on the TELNET Data Entry Terminal
(DET) Option - DODIIS Implementation for the Internet community.  It is
intended that this specification be capatible with the specification of
DET Option in RFC-732.  Discussion and suggests for improvements are
encouraged.

1042    Postel          Feb 88      A Standard for the Transmission of
IP Datagrams over IEEE 802 Networks

This RFC specifies a standard method of encapsulating the Internet
Protocol (IP) datagrams and Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) requests
and replies on IEEE 802 Networks to allow compatible and interoperable
implementations.  This RFC specifies a protocol standard for the
Internet community.

# 1041. Rekhter         Jan 88      Telnet 3270 Regime Option

This RFC specifies a proposed standard for the Internet community.
Hosts on the Internet that want to support 3270 data stream within the
Telnet protocol, are expected to adopt and implement this standard.

1040    Linn            Jan 88      Privacy Enhancement for Internet
Electronic Mail:  Part I Message
Encipherment and Authentication
Procedures

This RFC is the Outgrowth of a series of IAB Privacy Task Force meetings
and of internal working papers distributed for those meetings.  This
memo defines message encipherment and authentication procedures, as the
initial phase of an effort to provide privacy enhancement services for
electronic mail transfer in the Internet.  Detailed key management
mechanisms to support these procedures will be defined in a subsequent
RFC.  As a goal of this initial phase, it is intended that the
procedures defined here be compatible with a wide range of key
management approaches, including both conventional (symmetric) and
public-key (asymmetric) approaches for encryption of data encrypting
keys.  Use of conventional cryptography for message text encryption
and/or integrity check computation is anticipated.

1039    Latham          Jan 88      A DoD Statement on Open Systems
Interconnection Protocols

This RFC reproduces a memorandum issued on 2-JUL-87 from the Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, Communications, and
Intelligence (ASDC31) to the Director of the Defense Communications
Agency (DCA).  This memo is distributed for information only.

# 1038. St. Johns       Jan 88       Draft Revised IP Security Option

This memo is a pre-publication draft of the revised Internet Protocol
Security Option.  This RFC reflects the version as approved by the
Protocol Standards Steering group, and is provided for informational
purposes only.  The final version of this document will be available
from Navy publications and should not differ from this document in any
major fashion.  This document will be published as a change to the MIL-
STD 1777, "Internet Protocol".

# 1037. Greenberg       Dec 87        NFILE - A File Access Protocol

This document includes a specification of the NFILE file access protocol
and its underlying levels of protocol, the Token List Transport Layer
and Byte Stream with Mark.  The goal of this specification is to promote
discussion of the ideas described here, and to encourage designers of
future file protocols to take advantage of these ideas.  A secondary
goal is to make the specification available to sites that might benefit
from implementing NFILE.

1036    Horton          Dec 87        Standard for Interchange of
USENET Messages

This RFC defines the standard format for the interchange of network News
messages among USENET hosts.  It updates and replaces RFC-850,
reflecting version B2.11 of the News program.  This memo is distributed
as an RFC to make this information easily accessible to the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

# 1035. Mockapetris     Nov 87      Domain Names - Implementation

Specification

This RFC is the revised specification of the protocol and format used in
the implementation of the Domain Name System.  It obsoletes RFC-883.
This memo documents the details of the domain name client - server
communication.

# 1034. Mockapetris     Nov 87      Domain Names - Concepts and

Facilities

This RFC is the revised basic definition of The Domain Name System.  It
obsoletes RFC-882.  This memo describes the domain style names and their
used for host address look up and electronic mail forwarding.  It
discusses the clients and servers in the domain name system and the
protocol used between them.

1033    Lottor          Nov 87     Domain Administrators Operations
Guide

This RFC provides guidelines for domain administrators in operating a
domain server and maintaining their portion of the hierarchical
database.  Familiarity with the domain system is assumed (see RFCs 1031,
1032, 1034, and 1035).

1032    Stahl           Nov 87     Domain Administrators Guide

Domains are administrative entities that provide decentralized
management of host naming and addressing.  The domain-naming system is
distributed and hierarchical.

This memo describes procedures for registering a domain with the Network
Information Center (NIC) of Defense Data Network (DDN), and offers
guidelines on the establishment and administration of a domain in
accordance with the requirements specified in RFC-920. It is recommended
that the guidelines described in this document be used by domain
administrators in the establishment and control of second-level domains.
The role of the domain administrator (DA) is that of coordinator,
manager, and technician.  If his domain is established at the second
level or lower in the tree, the domain administrator must register by
interacting with the management of the domain directly above this.

1031    Lazear          Nov 87     Milnet Name Domain Transition

This RFC consolidates information necessary for the implementation of
domain style names throughout the DDN/MILNET Internet community.  The
introduction of domain style names will impact all hosts in the
DDN/MILNET Internet.  This RFC is designed as an aid to implementors and
administrators by providing: 1) an overview of the transition process
from host tables to domains, 2) a timetable for the transition, and 3)
references to documentation and software relating to the domain system.

# 1030. Lambert         Nov 87     On Testing the NETBLT Protocol over

Divers Networks

This memo describes the results gathered from testing NETBLT over three
networks of different bandwidths and round-trip delays.  The results are
not complete, but the information gathered so far has not been
promising.  The NETBLT protocol is specified in RFC-998; this document
assumes an understanding of the specification as described in RFC-998.

1029    Parr            May 88     A More Tolerant Approach to Address
Resolution  for Multi-Lan system of
Ethernets

This memo discusses an extension to a Bridge Protocol to detect and
disclose changes in heighbouring host address parameters in a Multi-Lan
system of Ethernets.  The problem is one which is appearing more and
more regularly as the interconnected systems grow larger on Campuses and
in Commercial Institutions.  This RFC suggests a protocol enhancement
for the Internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.

1028    Davin           Nov 87     A Simple Gateway Monitoring Protocol

This memo defines a simple application-layer protocol by which
management information for a gateway may be inspected or altered by
remote users.  This proposal is intended only as an interim response to
immediate gateway monitoring needs.

# 1027. Carl-Mitchell   Oct 87     Using ARP to Implement Transparent

Subnet Gateways

This RFC describes the use of the Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) by
subnet gateways to permit hosts on the connected subnets to communicate
without being aware of the existence of subnets, using the technique of
"Proxy ARP".

1026    Kille           Sep 87     Addendum to RFC-987 (Mapping between
X.400 and RFC-882)

This memo suggest a proposed protocol for the Internet community, and
request discussion and suggestions for improvements.

1025    Postel          Sep 87     TCP and IP Bake Off

This memo describes some of the procedures, scoring and tests used in
the TCP and IP bake offs held in the early development of these
protocols.  These procedures and tests may still be of use in testing
newly implemented TCP and IP modules.

# 1024. Partridge       Oct 87     HEMS Variable Definitions

This memo assigns instruction codes, defines object formats and object
semantics for use with the High-Level Monitoring and Control Language,
defined in RFC-1023.  A general system has been described in previous
memos (RFC-1021, RFC-1022).  This system is called the High-Level Entity
Management System (HEMS).  This memo is provisional and the definitions
are subject to change.  Readers should confirm with the authors that
they have the most recent version.  This RFC assumes a working knowledge
of the ISO data encoding standard, ASN.1, and a general understanding of
the IP protocol suite.

# 1023. Partridge       Oct 87     HEMS Monitoring and Control Language

This RFC specifies the High-Level Entity Management System (HEMS)
Monitoring and Control Language.  This language defines the requests and
replies used in HEMS.  This memo assumes knowledge of the HEMS system
described in RFC-1021, and of the ISO data encoding standard, ASN.1.

# 1022. Partridge       Oct 87     The High-Level Entity Management

Protocol (HEMP)

This memo presents an application protocol for managing network entities
such as hosts, gateways, and front end machines.  This protocol is a
component of the High-level Entity Management System HEMS), described is
RFC-1021.  This memo also assumes a knowledge of the ISO data encoding
standard, ASN.1.

# 1021. Partridge       Oct 87     The High-Level Entity Management

System (HEMS)

This memo provides a general overview of the High-level Entity
management system (HEMS).  This system is experimental, and is currently
being tested in portions of the Internet.

1020    Romano          Nov 87     Internet Numbers

This RFC is a list of the Assigned IP Network Numbers and EGP Autonomous
System Numbers.  This RFC obsoletes RFC-997.

1019    Arnon           Sep 87     Report of the Workshop on
Environments for Computational
Mathematics

This memo is a report on the discussion of the representation of
equations in a workshop at the ACM SIGGRAPH Conference held in Anaheim,
California on 30 July 1987.

# 1018. McKenzie        Aug 87     Some Comments on SQuID

This memo is a discussion of some of the ideas expressed in RFC-1016 on
Source Quench.  This memo introduces the distinction of the cause of
congestion in a gateway between the effects of "Funneling" and
Mismatch".  It is offered in the same spirit as RFC-1016; to stimulate
discussion.  The opinions offered are personal, not corporate, opinions.

1017    Leiner          Aug 87     Network Requirements for Scientific
Research

This RFC identifies the requirements on communication networks for
supporting scientific research.  It proposes some specific areas for
near term work, as well as some long term goals.  This is an "idea"
paper and discussion is strongly encouraged.

1016    Prue            July 87    Something a Host Could Do with Source
Quench:  The Source Quench Introduced
Delay (SQuID)

The memo is intended to explore the issue of what a host could do with a
source quench.  The proposal is for each source host IP module to
introduce some delay between datagrams sent to the same destination
host.  This is a "crazy idea paper" and discussion is essential.

1015    Leiner          July 87    Implementation Plan for Interagency
Research Internet

This RFC proposes an Interagency Research Internet as the natural
outgrowth of the current Internet.  This is an "idea paper" and

discussion is strongly encouraged.

1014    Sun             Jun 87     XDR: External Data Representation
Standard

XDR is a standard for the description and encoding of data.  It is
useful for transferring data between different computer architectures.
XDR fits into ISO presentation layer, and is roughly analogous in
purpose to X.409, ISO Abstract Syntax Notation.  The major difference
between these two is that XDR uses implicit typing, while X.409 uses
explicit typing.  This RFC is distributed for information only, it does
not establish a Internet standard.

# 1013. Scheifler       Jun 87     X Window System Protocol,

Version 11-Beta

This RFC is distributed to the Internet community for information only.
It does not establish an Internet standard.  The X window system has
been widely reviewed and tested.  The Internet community is encouraged
to experiment with it.

# 1012. Reynolds        Jun 87     Bibliography of Requests for

Comments 1-999

This RFC is a reference guide for the Internet community which provides
a bibliographic summary of the Request for Comments numbers 1 through
999 issued between the years 1969-1987.

# 1011. Reynolds        May 87     Official Internet Protocols

This memo is an official status report on the protocols used in the
Internet community.  It identifies the documents specifying the official
protocols used in the Internet.  Comments indicate any revisions or
changes planned.

# 1010. Reynolds        May 87     Assigned Numbers

This memo is an official status report on the numbers used in protocols
in the Internet community.  It documents the currently assigned values
from several series of numbers including link, socket, port, and
protocol, used in network protocol implementations.

# 1009. Braden         Jun 87     Requirements for Internet Gateways

This RFC summarizes the requirements for gateways to be used between
networks supporting the Internet protocols.  This document is a formal
statement of the requirements to be met by gateways used in the Internet
system.  As such, it is an official specification for the Internet
community.

1008     McCoy          Jun 87     Implementation Guide for the ISO
Transport Protocol

This RFC is being distributed to members of the Internet community in
order to solicit comments on the Implementors Guide.  While this
document may not be directly relevant to the research problems of the
Internet, it may be of some interest to a number of researchers and
implementors.

1007     McCoy          Jun 87     Military Supplement to the ISO
Transport Protocol

This document supplements the Transport Service and Protocol of the
International Standards Organization (ISO), IS 8072 and IS 8073,
respectively, and their formal descriptions by providing conventions,
option selections and parameter values.  This RFC is being distributed
to members of the Internet community in order to solicit comments on the
Draft Military Supplement.  While this document may not be directly
relevant to the research problems of the Internet, it may be of some
interest to a number of researchers and implementors.

1006     Rose           May 87     ISO Transport Services on top of
the TCP Version: 3

This memo specifies a standard for the Internet community.  Hosts on the
Internet that choose to implement ISO transport services on top of the
TCP are expected to adopt and implement this standard.  TCP port 102 is
reserved for hosts which implement this standard.  This memo specifies
version 3 of the protocol and supersedes RFC-983.  Changes between the
protocol is described in RFC-983 and this memo are minor, but
unfortunately incompatible.

# 1005. Khanna         May 87     The ARPANET AHIP-E Host Access

Protocol (Enhanced AHIP)

This RFC is a proposed specification for the encoding of Class A IP

addresses for use on ARPANET-style networks such as the Milnet and
Arpanet, and for enhancements to the ARPANET AHIP Host Access Protocol
(AHIP; formerly known as 1822).  These enhancements increase the size of
the PSN field, allow ARPANET hosts to use logical names to address each
other, allow for the communication of type-of-service information from
the host to the PSN and enable the PSN to provide congestion feedback to
the host on a connection basis.

1004     Mills          Apr 87     A Distributed-Protocol
Authentication Scheme

The purpose of this RFC is to focus discussion on authentication
problems in the Internet and possible methods of solution.  The proposed
solutions this document are not intended as standards for the Internet
at this time.  Rather, it is hoped that a general consensus will emerge
as to the appropriate solution to authentication problems, leading
eventually to the adoption of standards.  This document suggests
mediated access-control and authentication procedures suitable for those
cases when an association is to be set up between users belonging to
different trust environments.

1003     Katz           Mar 87     Issues in Defining an Equations
Representation Standard

This memo is intended to identify and explore issues in defining a
standard for the exchange of mathematical equations.  No attempt is made
at a complete definition and more questions are asked than are answered.
Questions about the user interface are only addressed to the extent that
they affect interchange issues.

# 1002. NETBIOS         Mar 87     Protocol Standard for A NetBIOS

Service on a TCP/UDP Transport:
Detailed Specifications

This RFC defines a proposed standard protocol to support NetBIOS
services in a TCP/IP environment.  Both local network and internet
operation are supported.  Various node types are defined to accommodate
local and internet topologies and to allow operation with or without the
use of IP broadcast.  This RFC gives the detailed specifications of the
netBIOS-over-TCP packets, protocols, and defined constants and
variables.  A more general overview is found in a companion RFC,
"Protocol Standard For NetBIOS Service on TCP/UDP Transport: Concepts
and Methods".

# 1001. NETBIOS         Mar 87     Protocol Standard for A NetBIOS

Service on a TCP/UDP Transport:
Concepts and Methods

This RFC defines a proposed standard protocol to support NetBIOS
services in a TCP/IP environment.  Both local network and internet
operation are supported.  Various node types are defined to accommodate
local and internet topologies and to allow operation with or without the
use of IP broadcast.  This RFC describes the NetBIOS-over-TCP protocols
in a general manner, emphasizing the underlying ideas and techniques.
Detailed specifications are found in a companion RFC, "Protocol Standard
For a NetBIOS Service on a TCP/UDP Transport: Detailed Specifications".

# 1000. Reynolds        Aug 87     The Request for Comments Reference

Guide

This RFC Reference Guide is intended to provide a historical account by
categorizing and summarizing of the Request for Comments numbers 1
through 999 issued between the years 1969-1987.  These documents have
been crossed referenced to indicate which RFCs are current, obsolete, or
revised.

# Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

# Author's Address

Joyce K. Reynolds
University of Southern California
Information Sciences Institute
4676 Admiralty Way
Marina del Rey, CA 90292

Phone:  (310) 822-1511

EMail:  JKREY@ISI.EDU
