---
rfc: 169
title: "IEEE Computer Society Workshop"
date: May 1971
---
1971.  Be sure to arrange any release required by your organization.
A registration fee of $45 includes means and housing.

Invitations will be mailed to selected participants approximately 15
August 1971.  Whether or not you plan to participate, please call
this announcement to the attention of qualified colleagues who have
been omitted from the mailing.

For further information as either a presenter or as a participant
please contact:

Prof. David J. Farber
University of California
Information and Computer Science Department
Irvine, California 92664
(714) 833-6891

or

Steve Crocker
Advanced Research Projects Agency - room 730
1400 Wilson Blvd.
Arlington, Virginia 22209

.
,'.`. THE INSTITUTE OF
.' /|\ `.   ELECTRICAL AND
< .--|--. >  ELECTRONICS
`.`-+-'.' . ENGINEERS, INC.
`.'.'
'

GENERAL INFORMATION ON IEEE WORKSHOPS

What is a Workshop?

The objectives of these workshops are:

To clarify, by exhaustive and off-the-record discussion between
active workers in the field, the merits and disadvantages of
controversial alternative approaches to a specific phase of
computer organization, and to establish the basis for a group of
high-quality papers for IEEE meetings and publications.

The workshop involves four (4) key concepts:

1.  Small number of participants to permit exhaustive discussion:

2.  Off-the-record proceedings to allow discussion of incomplete and
preliminary results:

3.  Selected mature participants to obviate the need for tutorial and
introductory material:

4.  A carefully defined topic to keep the discussion in focus.

Off-The-Record Meetings

To permit discussion of incomplete and tentative results, information
at the workshop cannot be published.  Slides or blackboards may not
be photographed so the workshop does not constitute disclosure in the
sense of the Patent Law.  After the meeting, participants are
encouraged to publish significant contributions.

Selected Participants

By limiting the workshop to a small number of active workers, mature
scientists knowledgeable in the specific area under discussion,
formal papers can be displaced by brief opening statements followed
by an open discussion.

General Information on IEEE Workshops
Page 2.

Publication of Results

One measure of the success of a workshop is the resulting publication
of research.  While the workshop itself is closed, it should serve as
a stimulus to generate a series of high-quality papers for subsequent
open meetings.

Session Organization

The workshop is divided into four (4) scheduled sessions, each
centered on one phase of the problem to be discussed.  Normally, the
workshop chairman will assign to each session chairman the task of
clarifying the subsidiary questions to be discussed in his session.
Each session is divided into "talks." The speakers are designated as
discussion leaders.  Most participants at the workshop will be
discussion leaders at one of the sessions.  The session chairman will
attempt to provide each speaker with the time he requests (within
limits).  Normally, five to ten minutes will be allowed for formal
presentation, with 15 to 30 minutes reserved for discussion and
debate.  In addition, the chairman may include a general discussion
period at the end of the session.
