---
rfc: 2699
date: May 2000
category: Informational
---

# 2038. Areas whose protocols will be effected by such problems have been

notified so that new revisions will remove this limitation.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.

# 2625. Rajagopal       Jun 1999        IP and ARP over Fibre Channel

The purpose of this document is to specify a way of encapsulating IP and
Address Resolution Protocol(ARP) over Fibre Channel and also to describe
a mechanism(s) for IP address resolution.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 2624. Shepler         Jun 1999        NFS Version 4 Design

Considerations

This design considerations document is meant to present more detail than
the working group charter.  Specifically, it presents the areas that the
working group will investigate and consider while developing a protocol
specification for NFS version 4.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.

2623    Eisler          Jun 1999        NFS Version 2 and Version 3
Security Issues and the NFS
Protocol's Use of RPCSEC_GSS
and Kerberos V5

This memorandum clarifies various security issues involving the NFS
protocol (Version 2 and Version 3 only) and then describes how the
Version 2 and Version 3 of the NFS protocol use the RPCSEC_GSS security
flavor protocol and Kerberos V5.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 2622. Alaettinoglu    Jun 1999        Routing Policy Specification

Language (RPSL)

RPSL allows a network operator to be able to specify routing policies at
various levels in the Internet hierarchy; for example at the Autonomous
System (AS) level.  At the same time, policies can be specified with
sufficient detail in RPSL so that low level router configurations can be
generated from them.  RPSL is extensible; new routing protocols and new
protocol features can be introduced at any time.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

2621    Zorn            Jun 1999        RADIUS Accounting Server MIB

This memo defines a set of extensions which instrument RADIUS accounting
server functions.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.

2620    Aboba           Jun 1999        RADIUS Accounting Client MIB

This memo defines a set of extensions which instrument RADIUS accounting
client functions.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.

2619    Zorn            Jun 1999        RADIUS Authentication Server MIB

This memo defines a set of extensions which instrument RADIUS
authentication server functions.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

2618    Aboba           Jun 1999        RADIUS Authentication Client MIB

This memo defines a set of extensions which instrument RADIUS
authentication client functions.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

2617    Franks          Jun 1999        HTTP Authentication: Basic and
Digest Access Authentication

This document provides the specification for HTTP's authentication
framework, the original Basic authentication scheme and a scheme based
on cryptographic hashes, referred to as "Digest Access Authentication".
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 2616. Fielding        Jun 1999        Hypertext Transfer Protocol --

HTTP/1.1

HTTP has been in use by the World-Wide Web global information initiative
since 1990. This specification defines the protocol referred to as
"HTTP/1.1", and is an update to RFC 2068.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

2615    Malis           Jun 1999        PPP over SONET/SDH

This document describes the use of PPP over Synchronous Optical Network
(SONET) and Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH) circuits.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]

2614    Kempf           Jun 1999        An API for Service Location

This document describes standardized APIs for SLP in C and Java.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.

# 2613. Waterman        Jun 1999        Remote Network Monitoring MIB

Extensions for Switched
Networks Version 1.0

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing remote network monitoring
devices in switched networks environments.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

2612    Adams           Jun 1999        The CAST-256 Encryption Algorithm

This document describes an existing algorithm that can be used to
satisfy this requirement.  Included are a description of the cipher and
the key scheduling algorithm, the s-boxes, and a set of test vectors
(Appendix A).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.

2611    Daigle          Jun 1999        URN Namespace Definition
Mechanisms

This document lays out general definitions of and mechanisms for
establishing URN "namespaces".  This document specifies an Internet Best
Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests discussion
and suggestions for improvements.

# 2610. Perkins         Jun 1999        DHCP Options for Service

Location Protocol

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol provides a framework for passing
configuration information to hosts on a TCP/IP network.  Entities using
the Service Location Protocol need to find out the address of Directory
Agents in order to transact messages.  Another option provides an
assignment of scope for configuration of SLP User and Service Agents.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 2609. Guttman         Jun 1999        Service Templates and Service:

Schemes

This document describes a formal procedure for defining and
standardizing new service types and attributes for use with the
"service:" scheme.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 2608. Guttman         Jun 1999        Service Location Protocol,

Version 2

The Service Location Protocol provides a scalable framework for the
discovery and selection of network services.  Using this protocol,
computers using the Internet need little or no static configuration of
network services for network based applications.  This is especially
important as computers become more portable, and users less tolerant or
able to fulfill the demands of network system administration.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

2607    Aboba           Jun 1999        Proxy Chaining and Policy
Implementation in Roaming

This document describes how proxy chaining and policy implementation can
be supported in roaming systems.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.

# 2606. Eastlake        Jun 1999        Reserved Top Level DNS Names

To reduce the likelihood of conflict and confusion, a few top level
domain names are reserved for use in private testing, as examples in
documentation, and the like.  In addition, a few second level domain
names reserved for use as examples are documented.  This document
specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community,
and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.

# 2605. Mansfield       Jun 1999        Directory Server Monitoring MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 2604. Gellens         Jun 1999        Wireless Device Configuration

(OTASP/OTAPA) via ACAP

This paper describes a viable and attractive means to provide
OTASP/OTAPA via IS-707, using the ACAP protocol.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.

# 2603. Davison         Jun 1999        ILMI-Based Server Discovery

for NHRP

This memo defines how ILMI-based Server Discovery, which provides a
method for ATM-attached hosts and routers to dynamically determine the
ATM addresses of servers, shall be used to locate NHRP servers.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 2602. Davison         Jun 1999        ILMI-Based Server Discovery

for MARS

This memo defines how ILMI-based Server Discovery, which provides a
method for ATM-attached hosts and routers to dynamically determine the
ATM addresses of servers, shall be used to locate MARS servers.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 2601. Davison         Jun 1999        ILMI-Based Server Discovery

for ATMARP

This memo defines how ILMI-based Server Discovery, which provides a
method for ATM-attached hosts and routers to dynamically determine the
ATM addresses of servers, shall be used to locate ATMARP servers.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# 2600. Reynolds        Mar 2000        Internet Official Protocol

Standards

This memo is published by the RFC Editor in accordance with Section 2.1
of "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3", RFC 2026, which
specifies the rules and procedures by which all Internet standards are
set.  This memo is prepared by the RFC Editor for the IESG and IAB.
Please see http://www.rfc-editor.org for later updates to this document.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

# Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

# Author's Address

Sandy Ginoza
University of Southern California
Information Sciences Institute
4676 Admiralty Way
Marina Del Rey, CA 90292

Phone: (310) 822-1511
EMail: ginoza@isi.edu

Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
"AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
