---
title: "Center for Advanced"
---
1.  Insufficient demand for commonly required items.
2.  Not satisfying each organization's administrative
requirements for competitive bidding on items
which are not sole-source justified.

At this time, it appears to be premature to allow this to stop the
idea.  After the listing of items and range of sources are collected and
analyzed, these two points can be addressed.  In fact, this project may
have to be abandoned; however, there are sufficient reasons to believe
that these problems can be overcome to make the venture workable.

We request that all members of the Network forward to the Center,
ATTN. R. F. Borelli, a descriptive listing of equipment and supplies
they require in this fiscal year.  Particular attention must be paid to
listing all the acceptable alternates to increase the changes of
commonality.  For example: TI-725 terminals could be considered a
substitute for Teleterms 1030's, etc.  The only items excluded at this
time are 2400 ft. Magnetic Computer Tapes, tabulating cards, and
conventional computer printer paper.  Any added suggestions or ideas are
both encouraged and welcomed.

A sample format of information is attached.

Sample Format of Information Requirement is as Follows:
------------------------------------------------------
Current
Estimated
Quantity      Description and Special Needs      Mfgr.           Cost
--------      -----------------------------      -----       -----------

3         Remote Terminals                 Texas Instr.  $4,200.00 @
Model TI-725 with upper and            or
lower case                      Teleterms

100 rolls/mo  Electro Static Printer Paper      Gould        $10.00/roll

Requested by:

University of Illinois
Center for Advanced Computation
Urbana, Illinois  61801
Telephone:  (217) 333-6375

A listing of items not intended as all-inclusive are:

1.  Gould Electrostatic Printers and printer paper.
2.  Computek graphics terminals.
3.  ARDS graphics terminals.
4.  CRT alphanumeric terminals (Hazeltine, Datapoint, DEC, etc.).
5.  Hard-copy portable terminals (TI-725, Teleterm 1030, NCR etc.).
6.  Teletype (ASR and KSR-33, 35 and 37)
7.  Plasma panels.
8.  Plotters (CalComp, Bendix, Calma, etc.).
9.  Digitizers and scanners.
10.  Computers (PDP-11, PDP-10).
11.  Computer peripherals (TU-56, TC-11, etc.).
12.  IMLAC's.

[ This RFC was put into machine readable form for entry ]

```
         [ into the online RFC archives by BBN Corp. under the   ]
         [ direction of Alex McKenzie.                   12/96   ]

```