---
rfc: 3099
date: November 2001
category: Informational
---
V.44 Packet Method to the Internet Protocol (IP) Payload Compression
Protocol (RFC 2393).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.

3050    Lennox          Jan 2001        Common Gateway Interface for
SIP

This document defines a SIP CGI interface for providing SIP services on
a SIP server.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.

3049    Naugle          Jan 2001        TN3270E Service Location and
Session Balancing

This document discusses the implementation of Service Location Protocol
(SLP) and session balancing with a TN3270E emulator in a client server
implementation with a TN3270E server.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3048. Whetten         Jan 2001        Reliable Multicast Transport

Building Blocks for
One-to-Many Bulk-Data Transfer

This document describes a framework for the standardization of bulk-data
reliable multicast transport.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.

3047    Luthi           Jan 2001        RTP Payload Format for ITU-T
Recommendation G.722.1

This document describes the payload format for including G.722.1
generated bit streams within an RTP packet.  Also included here are the
necessary details for the use of G.722.1 with MIME and SDP.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]

# 3046. Patrick         Jan 2001        DHCP Relay Agent Information

Option

Newer high-speed public Internet access technologies call for a high-
speed modem to have a local area network (LAN) attachment to one or more
customer premise hosts.  It is advantageous to use the Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol (DHCP) as defined in RFC 2131 to assign customer
premise host IP addresses in this environment.  However, a number of
security and scaling problems arise with such "public" DHCP use.  This
document describes a new DHCP option to address these issues.  This
option extends the set of DHCP options as defined in RFC 2132.
[STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3045. Meredith        Jan 2001        Storing Vendor Information in

the LDAP root DSE

This document specifies two Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
attributes, vendorName and vendorVersion that MAY be included in the
root DSA-specific Entry (DSE) to advertise vendor-specific information.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.

# 3044. Rozenfeld       Jan 2001        Using The ISSN (International

Serial Standard Number) as URN
(Uniform Resource Names)
within an ISSN-URN Namespace

This document presents how the ISSN - International Standard Serial
Number - which is a persistent number for unique identification of
serials widely recognised and used in the bibliographic world, can be
supported within the Uniform Resource Name (URN) framework as a specific
URN namespace identifier.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.

# 3043. Mealling        Jan 2001        The Network Solutions Personal

Internet Name (PIN): A URN
Namespace for People and
Organizations

This document describes a Uniform Resource Name (URN) namespace that is
engineered by Network Solutions, Inc. for naming people and
organizations.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.

3042    Allman          Jan 2001        Enhancing TCP's Loss Recovery
Using Limited Transmit

This document proposes a new Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
mechanism that can be used to more effectively recover lost segments
when a connection's congestion window is small, or when a large number
of segments are lost in a single transmission window.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3041    Narten          Jan 2001        Privacy Extensions for
Stateless Address
Autoconfiguration in IPv6

This document describes an extension to IPv6 stateless address
autoconfiguration for interfaces whose interface identifier is derived
from an IEEE identifier.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3040    Cooper          Jan 2001        Internet Web Replication and
Caching Taxonomy

This memo specifies standard terminology and the taxonomy of web
replication and caching infrastructure as deployed today.  It introduces
standard concepts, and protocols used today within this application
domain.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.

# 3039. Santesson       Jan 2001        Internet X.509 Public Key

Infrastructure Qualified
Certificates Profile

This document forms a certificate profile for Qualified Certificates,
based on RFC 2459, for use in the Internet.  The goal of this document
is to define a general syntax independent of local legal requirements.
[STANDARDS TRACK]

3038    Nagami          Jan 2001        VCID Notification over ATM
link for LDP

This document specifies the procedures for the communication of VCID
values between neighboring ATM-LSRs that must occur in order to ensure
this property.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3037    Thomas          Jan 2001        LDP Applicability

A fundamental concept in MPLS is that two Label Switching Routers (LSRs)
must agree on the meaning of the labels used to forward traffic between
and through them.  This common understanding is achieved by using a set
of procedures, called a label distribution protocol, by which one LSR
informs another of label bindings it has made.  This document describes
the applicability of a set of such procedures called LDP (for Label
Distribution Protocol) by which LSRs distribute labels to support MPLS
forwarding along normally routed paths.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.

# 3036. Andersson       Jan 2001        LDP Specification

A fundamental concept in MPLS is that two Label Switching Routers (LSRs)
must agree on the meaning of the labels used to forward traffic between
and through them.  This common understanding is achieved by using a set
of procedures, called a label distribution protocol, by which one LSR
informs another of label bindings it has made.  This document defines a
set of such procedures called LDP (for Label Distribution Protocol) by
which LSRs distribute labels to support MPLS forwarding along normally
routed paths.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3035    Davie           Jan 2001        MPLS using LDP and ATM VC
Switching

This document extends and clarifies the relevant portions of RFC 3031
and RFC 3036 by specifying in more detail the procedures which to be
used when distributing labels to or from ATM-LSRs, when those labels
represent Forwarding Equivalence Classes (FECs, see RFC 3031) for which
the routes are determined on a hop-by-hop basis by network layer routing
algorithms.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3034    Conta           Jan 2001        Use of Label Switching on
Frame Relay Networks
Specification

This document defines the model and generic mechanisms for Multiprotocol
Label Switching on Frame Relay networks.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3033    Suzuki          Jan 2001        The Assignment of the
Information Field and Protocol
Identifier in the Q.2941 Generic
Identifier and Q.2957
User-to-user Signaling for the
Internet Protocol

The purpose of this document is to specify the assignment of the
information field and protocol identifier in the Q.2941 Generic
Identifier and Q.2957 User-to-user Signaling for the Internet protocol.
[STANDARDS TRACK]

3032    Rosen           Jan 2001        MPLS Label Stack Encoding

This document specifies the encoding to be used by an LSR in order to
transmit labeled packets on Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) data links, on
LAN data links, and possibly on other data links as well.  This document
also specifies rules and procedures for processing the various fields of
the label stack encoding.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3031    Rosen           Jan 2001        Multiprotocol Label Switching
Architecture

This document specifies the architecture for Multiprotocol Label
Switching (MPLS).  [STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3030. Vaudreuil       Dec 2000        SMTP Service Extensions for

Transmission of Large and
Binary MIME Messages

This memo defines two extensions to the SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer
Protocol) service.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3029    Adams           Feb 2001        Internet X.509 Public Key
Infrastructure Data Validation
and Certification Server
Protocols

This document describes a general Data Validation and Certification
Server (DVCS) and the protocols to be used when communicating with it.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.

# 3028. Showalter       Jan 2001        Sieve: A Mail Filtering

Language

This document describes a language for filtering e-mail messages at time
of final delivery.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3027. Holdrege        Jan 2001        Protocol Complications with

the IP Network Address
Translator

The purpose of this document is to identify the protocols and
applications that break with NAT enroute.  The document also attempts to
identify any known workarounds.  This document attempts to capture as
much information as possible, but is by no means a comprehensive
coverage.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.

3026    Blane           Jan 2001        Liaison to IETF/ISOC on ENUM

Working Party 1/2, of the International Telecommunication Union
Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T) held a meeting of its
collaborators in Berlin Germany 19-26 October 2000.  This liaison from
WP1/2 to the IETF/ISOC conveys the understandings of the WP1/2
collaborators resulting from the discussions.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.

# 3025. Dommety         Feb 2001        Mobile IP

Vendor/Organization-Specific
Extensions

This document defines two new extensions to Mobile IP.  These extensions
will facilitate equipment vendors and organizations to make specific use
of these extensions as they see fit for research or deployment purposes.
[STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3024. Montenegro      Jan 2001        Reverse Tunneling for Mobile

IP, revised

This document proposes backwards-compatible extensions to Mobile IP to
support topologically correct reverse tunnels.  This document does not
attempt to solve the problems posed by firewalls located between the
home agent and the mobile node's care-of address.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3023    Murata          Jan 2001        XML Media Types

This document standardizes five new media types -- text/xml,
application/xml, text/xml-external-parsed-entity, application/xml-
external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd -- for use in exchanging
network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language
(XML).  This document also standardizes a convention (using the suffix
'+xml') for naming media types outside of these five types when those
media types represent XML MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions)
entities.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3022. Srisuresh       Jan 2001        Traditional IP Network Address

Translator (Traditional NAT)

The NAT operation described in this document extends address translation
introduced in RFC 1631 and includes a new type of network address and
TCP/UDP port translation.  In addition, this document corrects the
Checksum adjustment algorithm published in RFC 1631 and attempts to
discuss NAT operation and limitations in detail.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.

3021    Retana          Dec 2000        Using 31-Bit Prefixes on IPv4
Point-to-Point Links

With ever-increasing pressure to conserve IP address space on the
Internet, it makes sense to consider where relatively minor changes can
be made to fielded practice to improve numbering efficiency.  One such
change, proposed by this document, is to halve the amount of address
space assigned to point-to-point links (common throughout the Internet
infrastructure) by allowing the use of 31-bit subnet masks in a very
limited way.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3020    Pate            Dec 2000        Definitions of Managed Objects
for Monitoring and Controlling
the UNI/NNI Multilink Frame
Relay Function

This memo defines a Management Information Base (MIB) for monitoring and
controlling a UNI/NNI Multilink Frame Relay Function as defined in Frame
Relay Forum FRF.16.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3019. Haberman        Jan 2001        IP Version 6 Management

Information Base for The
Multicast Listener Discovery
Protocol

This document defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in Internet Protocol Version 6
internets.  Specifically, this document is the MIB module that defines
managed objects for implementations of the Multicast Listener Discovery
Protocol [RFC2710].  [STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3018. Bogdanov        Dec 2000        Unified Memory Space Protocol

Specification

This document specifies Unified Memory Space Protocol (UMSP), which
gives a capability of immediate access to memory of the remote nodes.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.

3017    Riegel          Dec 2000        XML DTD for Roaming Access
Phone Book

This document defines the syntax as well as the semantics of the
information to be included in the phone book for roaming applications.
[STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3016. Kikuchi         Nov 2000        RTP Payload Format for MPEG-4

Audio/Visual Streams

This document describes Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) payload
formats for carrying each of MPEG-4 Audio and MPEG-4 Visual bitstreams
without using MPEG-4 Systems.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3015    Cuervo          Nov 2000        Megaco Protocol Version 1.0

This document defines the protocol used between elements of a physically
decomposed multimedia gateway, i.e. a Media Gateway and a Media Gateway
Controller.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3014. Kavasseri       Nov 2000        Notification Log MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for logging Simple Network
Management Protocol (SNMP) Notifications.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3013. Killalea        Nov 2000        Recommended Internet Service

Provider Security Services and
Procedures

The purpose of this document is to express what the engineering
community as represented by the IETF expects of Internet Service
Providers (ISPs) with respect to security.  This document specifies an
Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.

# 3012. Perkins         Nov 2000        Mobile IPv4 Challenge/Response

Extensions

In this specification, we define extensions for the Mobile IP Agent
Advertisements and the Registration Request that allow a foreign agent
to use a challenge/response mechanism to authenticate the mobile node.
[STANDARDS TRACK]

3011    Waters          Nov 2000        The IPv4 Subnet Selection
Option for DHCP

This memo defines a new Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)
option for selecting the subnet on which to allocate an address.
[STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3010. Shepler         Dec 2000        NFS version 4 Protocol

NFS (Network File System) version 4 is a distributed file system
protocol which owes heritage to NFS protocol versions 2 [RFC1094] and 3
[RFC1813].  Unlike earlier versions, the NFS version 4 protocol supports
traditional file access while integrating support for file locking and
the mount protocol.  In addition, support for strong security (and its
negotiation), compound operations, client caching, and
internationalization have been added.  Of course, attention has been
applied to making NFS version 4 operate well in an Internet environment.
[STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3009. Rosenberg       Nov 2000        Registration of parityfec MIME

types

The RTP (Real-time Transport Protocol) payload format for generic
forward error correction allows RTP participants to improve loss
resiliency through the use of traditional parity-based channel codes.
This payload format requires four new MIME types, audio/parityfec,
video/parityfec, text/parityfec and application/parityfec.  This
document serves as the MIME type registration for those formats.
[STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3008. Wellington      Nov 2000        Domain Name System Security

(DNSSEC) Signing Authority

This document proposes a revised model of Domain Name System Security
(DNSSEC) Signing Authority.  The revised model is designed to clarify
earlier documents and add additional restrictions to simplify the secure
resolution process.  Specifically, this affects the authorization of
keys to sign sets of records.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3007. Wellington      Nov 2000        Secure Domain Name System

(DNS) Dynamic Update

This document proposes a method for performing secure Domain Name System
(DNS) dynamic updates.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3006    Davie           Nov 2000        Integrated Services in the
Presence of Compressible Flows

This specification describes an extension to the TSpec which enables a
sender of potentially compressible data to provide hints to int-serv
routers about the compressibility they may obtain.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3005    Harris          Nov 2000        IETF Discussion List Charter

The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) discussion mailing list
furthers the development and specification of Internet technology
through discussion of technical issues, and hosts discussions of IETF
direction, policy, meetings, and procedures.  As this is the most
general IETF mailing list, considerable latitude is allowed.
Advertising, whether to solicit business or promote employment
opportunities, falls well outside the range of acceptable topics, as do
discussions of a personal nature.  This document specifies an Internet
Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.

3004    Stump           Nov 2000        The User Class Option for DHCP

This option is used by a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)
client to optionally identify the type or category of user or
applications it represents.  The information contained in this option is
an opaque field that represents the user class of which the client is a
member.  Based on this class, a DHCP server selects the appropriate
address pool to assign an address to the client and the appropriate
configuration parameters.  This option should be configurable by a user.
[STANDARDS TRACK]

# 3003. Nilsson         Nov 2000        The audio/mpeg Media Type

The audio layers of the MPEG-1 and MPEG-2 standards are in frequent use
on the internet, but there is no uniform Multipurpose Internet Mail
Extension (MIME) type for these files.  The intention of this document
is to define the media type audio/mpeg to refer to this kind of
contents.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3002    Mitzel          Dec 2000        Overview of 2000 IAB Wireless
Internetworking Workshop

This document provides an overview of a workshop held by the Internet
Architecture Board (IAB) on wireless internetworking.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.

# 3001. Mealling        Nov 2000        A URN Namespace of Object

Identifiers

This document describes a Uniform Resource Names (URN) namespace that
contains Object Identifiers (OIDs).  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.

# 3000. Reynolds        Nov 2001        Internet Official Protocol

Standards

This memo contains a snapshot of the state of standardization of
protocols used in the Internet as of October 25, 2001.  It lists
official protocol standards and Best Current Practice RFCs; it is not a
complete index to the RFC series.  The latest version of this memo is
designated STD 1.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

# Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

# Author's Address

Sandy Ginoza
University of Southern California
Information Sciences Institute
4676 Admiralty Way
Marina del Rey, CA 90292

Phone:  (310) 822-1511

EMail: ginoza@isi.edu

Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
"AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Acknowledgement

Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
Internet Society.
