---
rfc: 364
title: "Serving Remote Users on the ARPANET"
date: July 1972
---
1. Communications

How do you log in (or whatever it is called)?

What device assumptions are made concerning lines per
page, columns per line, (seperate) line feed, (seperate)
carriage return, (combined) carriage return line feed,
horizontal tab, vertical tab, form feed, and back space?

Have any of the non-printing ASCII characters been
assigned non-standard functions?

2. Command language

What is the minimum set of control statements required?

Where are the control statements documented?

What are the installation defaults on control statements?

3. File System and Editor(s)

What are the attributes of the file system? Describe the
naming conventions of the defaults.

How is a set, subset, and superset of "files" defined,

related and named?

What is the minimum information about the file system that
is required in order to use the editor(s) and language
processors?

Are names divided into adjectival qualifiers? What are
these called? Are there restrictions? Defaults?

Describe the editor(s) characteristics. What documentation
is available?

Are there in-line editing features (e.g., erase
immediately preceding character, erase entire line)?
Describe.

4. Languages

What language processors are available?

How are the processors implemented (e.g., batch compiler,
interpreter, incremental computer)? What difference does
it made to the user?

What is the compitability of your language dialect(s) with
the standard and with other dialects?

To what extent can program units written in different
languages communicate? Discuss data types,
representations, and structures as well as subroutine
linkage conventions.

XIII.  Operations

What measures are in effect to preserve the security of one's
files and accounts?

Can a remote user direct printing, punched cards, plotting, etc.
to an on-site device? How does he get his output mailed to him?

What off-line secondary storage is available? How is it used?
What does it cost?

How does the remote user request, renew, release, mount and
demount tapes and disk packs?

What arrangements are there for mailing off-line storage media?

Is the operating staff aware that there are remote users?

Are there services available to local users not available to
remote users; and conversely?

Is there on-line file storage? What does it cost? What limits
are imposed?  How often is it backed-up?

Does the announced operating schedule consider users in
different time zones?

Is the announced schedule closely followed?

How are remote users notified of changes in the schedule?

Implementation

Much of the information suggested herein as being beneficial for
remote user would also apply to local users. Perhaps much of it
already exists in local documentation. I assert that the remote user
is usually unable to easily find the information, especially when he
works with several remote hosts. Presenting the information in a
format that followed a standard outline would certainly be a service.
I also recognize that preparation of this information might involve a
duplication of effort, and would possibly produce two documents which
had to be updated when changes occurred. One solution is to follow
the outline in producing a guide to the literature available from the
host site.

[ This RFC was put into machine readable form for entry ]
[ into the online RFC archives by Alan Ford 10/99 ]
