---
rfc: 439
title: "PARRY Encounters the DOCTOR"
date: January 1973
---
...Excuse me for just a minute.  Sorry to have interrupt you please
continue...

*Really?

Please go on.

*In my opinion you have a one-track mind.

What makes you think I have a one-track mind?

comment: you ready for this?

*I used to go to the track every week.

What does that suggest to you?

*I avoid racetracks now because the races are fixed.

Is that the real reason?

*I'd rather not discuss it.

What else would you like to discuss?

*That's something I don't want to go into.

Does that trouble you?

*I went to the races.

Why do you say that just now.

*It's none of your business.

Why are you concerned over my business?

*I don't confide in strangers.

Don't you really confide in strangers?

*Let's change the subject.

Perhaps that concerns your feelings.

*I went to the races.

I am not sure I understand you fully.

*What's wrong with you that you keep on bugging me about this?

Who are you really talking about?

*The way you repeat yourself is getting ridiculous.

Suppose you repeat myself is getting ridiculous.

comment: howzat?

*There are some tricky operators down there.

Are there really some tricky operators down there?

*The guys involved in the horseracing racket.

Please go on.

*You are a real nag.

comment: just one of the horses.

Does it please you to believe I am a real nag?

*I have had enough of this.

What does that suggest to you?

*Goodbye.

It's been my pleasure, that's $399.29 please.

comment: talk about tricky operators...

PARRY was running at SAIL and DOCTOR at BBN Tenex, both being
accessed from UCLA/SEX.

[This RFC was put into machine readable form for entry]

```
    [into the online RFC archives by Helene Morin, Via Genie, 12/1999]

```