---
title: "Announcement Of A (Tentative) Workshop"
date: March 1973
---

# 1. How can the interfaces to resources of interest be standardized so

as to be accessible by "server" processes;

# 2. How can communications with such server processes be standardized?

(an ARPANET Executive protocol?)

# 3. To what extent can the conversational user interface be standardized

in the user processes? (an ARPANET Executive language?)

# 4. How can access authentication and accounting procedures be modified

to permit a user to "login" only once, yet use resources at many
Host sites?

If you are interested in discussing these and related issues forward
your name to Bob Thomas (BTHOMAS @BBN-TENEX), Bolt Beranek and Newman,
Inc., 50 Moulton Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, (617) 491-1850,
extension 483.  If there is sufficient response, a Workshop (tentatively
planned for April) will be hosted by the BBN TENEX and BBN TIP groups.
The Workshop will permit participants to present relevant work and to
discuss the issues raised above.

RFC 471        Workshop On Multi Site Executive Programs      March 1973

In the meantime, an example of an executive program which interprets a
limited set of commands in a multi-site context is available for
experimental use by TIP and TENEX users. The "N" command of the TIP and
the RSEXEC (Resource Sharing Executive) subsystem on TENEX, provide
command interpretation in the context of TENEX and ITS sites. Users
whose access to the network is neither via a TIP or a TENEX may use the
RSEXEC by directing their user TELNET to ICP to socket 367 (Octal) at
BBN-TENEX.

[ This RFC was put into machine readable form for entry ]
[ into the online RFC archives by Alex McKenzie with    ]

```
       [ support from GTE, formerly BBN Corp.             9/99 ]

```