---
rfc: 6969
title: "OSPFv3 Instance ID Registry Update"
date: July 2013
category: Standards
updates: [5838]
---

# Abstract

This document modifies the "Unassigned" number space in the IANA
"OSPFv3 Instance ID Address Family Values" registry by dividing it in
two halves -- one half Unassigned but managed via Standards Action,
and the other Reserved for Private Use.  It updates RFC 5838.

# Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
(IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
received public review and has been approved for publication by the
Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Further information on
Internet Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 5741.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata,
and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6969.

# Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2013 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
document authors.  All rights reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
(http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
publication of this document.  Please review these documents
carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
described in the Simplified BSD License.

# Table of Contents

  - [1.  Introduction](#1-introduction)
  - [2.  OSPFv3 Instance ID Address Family Values Registry Update](#2-ospfv3-instance-id-address-family-values-registry-update)
  - [3.  IANA Considerations](#3-iana-considerations)
  - [4.  Security Considerations](#4-security-considerations)
  - [5.  Acknowledgements](#5-acknowledgements)
  - [6.  References](#6-references)
  - [6.1.  Normative References](#61-normative-references)
  - [6.2.  Informative References](#62-informative-references)

In some networks, additional OSPFv3 instances may be required to
operationally identify specific applications.  This need requires a
pool of Instance IDs that the operator may locally assign for that
purpose.

For example, [OSPF-EMBED] describes an application in which IPv4-
embedded IPv6 addresses [RFC6052] are used to transport IPv4 packets
over an IPv6 network.  While the IPv4-embedded IPv6 addresses do in
fact represent IPv6 destinations, it would be operationally
beneficial to be able to easily identify the specific application by
having a separate space to do so.  This benefit is enabled by the
allocation of a range of Private Use Instance IDs.

This document modifies the IANA "OSPFv3 Instance ID Address Family
Values" registry by designating a range as Reserved for Private Use.
For the remaining unassigned values, the registration procedure is
Standards Action.

# 2. OSPFv3 Instance ID Address Family Values Registry Update

The IANA "OSPFv3 Instance ID Address Family Values" registry has been
updated so that Instance IDs from 192-255 are Reserved for Private
Use [RFC5226].  For the remaining unassigned values (128-191), the
registration procedure is Standards Action.  The registry now shows:

+--------------------------+---------------+-----------------------+
| Value                    | Description   | Reference             |
+--------------------------+---------------+-----------------------+
| 128-191                  | Unassigned    | 192-255               |
| Reserved for Private Use | this document | Private Use [RFC5226] |
+--------------------------+---------------+-----------------------+

# 3. IANA Considerations

This document requests the modification of the "OSPFv3 Instance ID
Address Family Values" registry as described in Section 2.  The
reference to [RFC5838] has been removed from the registry for the
modified ranges.

# 4. Security Considerations

This document modifies an IANA registry defined in [RFC5838].  It
does not introduce any new security issues.

# 5. Acknowledgements

Many thanks to Acee Lindem, Stewart Bryant, Nevil Brownlee, Pearl
Liang, Ben Campbell, Adrian Farrel, and Richard Barnes for their
review and input.

# 6. References

## 6.1. Normative References

[RFC5226]     Narten, T. and H. Alvestrand, "Guidelines for Writing
an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26,
RFC 5226, May 2008.

## 6.2. Informative References

[OSPF-EMBED]  Cheng, D., Boucadair, M., and A. Retana, "Routing for
IPv4-embedded IPv6 Packets", Work in Progress,
June 2013.

[RFC5838]     Lindem, A., Mirtorabi, S., Roy, A., Barnes, M., and R.
Aggarwal, "Support of Address Families in OSPFv3",
RFC 5838, April 2010.

[RFC6052]     Bao, C., Huitema, C., Bagnulo, M., Boucadair, M., and

# X. Li, "IPv6 Addressing of IPv4/IPv6 Translators",

RFC 6052, October 2010.

# Authors' Addresses

Alvaro Retana
Cisco Systems, Inc.
7025 Kit Creek Rd.
Research Triangle Park, NC  27709
USA

EMail: aretana@cisco.com

Dean Cheng
Huawei Technologies
2330 Central Expressway
Santa Clara, California  95050
USA

EMail: dean.cheng@huawei.com
