# luigi.contrib.external_program

Template tasks for running external programs as luigi tasks.

This module is primarily intended for when you need to call a single external
program or shell script, and it’s enough to specify program arguments and
environment variables.

If you need to run multiple commands, chain them together or pipe output
from one command to the next, you’re probably better off using something like
plumbum [https://plumbum.readthedocs.io/], and wrapping plumbum commands in normal luigi
`Task` s.

Classes

`ExternalProgramRunContext`(proc)

`ExternalProgramTask`(*args, **kwargs)

Template task for running an external program in a subprocess

`ExternalPythonProgramTask`(*args, **kwargs)

Template task for running an external Python program in a subprocess

Exceptions

`ExternalProgramRunError`(message, args[, ...])

class luigi.contrib.external_program.ExternalProgramTask(**args*, ***kwargs*)

Template task for running an external program in a subprocess

The program is run using `subprocess.Popen`, with `args` passed
as a list, generated by `program_args()` (where the first element should
be the executable). See `subprocess.Popen` for details.

Your must override `program_args()` to specify the arguments you want,
and you can optionally override `program_environment()` if you want to
control the environment variables (see `ExternalPythonProgramTask`
for an example).

By default, the output (stdout and stderr) of the run external program
is being captured and displayed after the execution has ended. This
behaviour can be overridden by passing `--capture-output False`

capture_output

A Parameter whose value is a `bool`. This parameter has an implicit default value of
`False`. For the command line interface this means that the value is `False` unless you
add `"--the-bool-parameter"` to your command without giving a parameter value. This is
considered *implicit* parsing (the default). However, in some situations one might want to give
the explicit bool value (`"--the-bool-parameter true|false"`), e.g. when you configure the
default value to be `True`. This is called *explicit* parsing. When omitting the parameter
value, it is still considered `True` but to avoid ambiguities during argument parsing, make
sure to always place bool parameters behind the task family on the command line when using
explicit parsing.

You can toggle between the two parsing modes on a per-parameter base via

```
class MyTask(luigi.Task):
    implicit_bool = luigi.BoolParameter(parsing=luigi.BoolParameter.IMPLICIT_PARSING)
    explicit_bool = luigi.BoolParameter(parsing=luigi.BoolParameter.EXPLICIT_PARSING)

```