# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/other/2024-06-11-dcr.md

# June 11, 2024 — Snowflake Data Clean Rooms Release Notes

This topic provides an overview of the new features, enhancements, and other important changes introduced in this update to Snowflake Data
Clean Rooms.

## Additional supported regions — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that Snowflake Data Clean Rooms are now available in all commercial regions currently
supported by Snowflake. The new regions consist of the following:

**South America**

| Cloud platform | Supported region | Cloud region ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Amazon Web Service | South America (Sao Paulo) | sa-east-1 |

**Middle East**

| Cloud platform | Supported region | Cloud region ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Microsoft Azure | UAE North (Dubai) | uae-north |

**Asia Pacific**

| Cloud platform | Supported region | Cloud region ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Amazon Web Services | Asia Pacific (Tokyo) | ap-northeast-1 |
|  | Asia Pacific (Osaka) | ap-northeast-3 |
|  | Asia Pacific (Seoul) | ap-northeast-2 |
|  | Asia Pacific (Jakarta) | ap-southeast-3 |
| Microsoft Azure | Japan East (Tokyo) | japaneast |

## Granular access management for Snowflake data — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased announce that account administrators and object owners can grant access to Snowflake data at the schema
and object level. To grant access so clean room users can link data into a clean room, the administrator or owner registers the database,
schema, or object using the web app or developer APIs. When a database or schema is registered, all of the tables and views in that database
or schema are registered.

For more information about granting access, see [Registering data](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/register-data.md).

## Choosing a warehouse when running an analysis — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that clean room users can select which warehouse they want to use when running an analysis
with select templates. This helps analysts use an optimal warehouse size and type, which can speed up the analysis.

Snowflake provides a set of default warehouses to choose from, but the Snowflake administrator can create and configure additional
warehouses that can be used for the analysis.

For more information, see [Select a warehouse for an analysis](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/web-app-working.md).

## Support for multiple custom templates in web app — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce that providers can use the developer APIs to add multiple custom templates to the web app.
Now, consumers can use a user interface to run different types of custom analyses in a single clean room.

For an extended example of using the developer API to add custom templates to the web app, see
[Define a user input form for a custom template](../../../user-guide/cleanrooms/demo-flows/custom-templates.md).
