# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/7_37.md

# October 16-17, 2023 — 7.37 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release Notes Change Log.

## New Features

### Logging and tracing from handler code — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of logging and tracing from handler code, which was previously available as a preview feature.

With this feature, you can emit log and trace event data from UDF and procedure handler code so that the data is stored in an event table associated with your account. You can then query the stored data to analyze it.

For more information, see [Logging, tracing, and metrics](../../developer-guide/logging-tracing/logging-tracing-overview.md).

## Extensibility Updates

### Reading files with a Python function or procedure — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of Python support for reading files with the `SnowflakeFile` class.

`SnowflakeFile` is a new class in the `snowflake.snowpark.files` module that provides dynamic read access for files on an internal or external stage. With `SnowflakeFile`, you can stream files to accomplish tasks such as reading unstructured data or using your own machine learning model in a user-defined function (UDF), user-defined table function (UDTF), or stored procedure.

For more information, see:

> * [Reading Files from a UDF with the Snowpark API](../../developer-guide/udf/python/udf-python-examples.md)
> * [Reading a File from a Python UDF Handler](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/creating-udfs.md)
> * [Reading a File from a Python Stored Procedure Handler](../../developer-guide/stored-procedure/python/procedure-python-read-files.md)
> * [Reading Files from a Stored Procedure with the Snowpark API](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/creating-sprocs.md)

### Reading files with a Scala function or procedure handler — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of support for reading staged files with a UDF or procedure handler code written in Scala.

For more information, see [Reading a File with a Scala UDF](../../developer-guide/udf/scala/udf-scala-examples.md) and [Reading files with a Scala stored procedure](../../developer-guide/stored-procedure/scala/procedure-scala-read-files.md).

## SQL Updates

### Fixed an issue with column aliases for aggregates and the GROUP BY ALL clause

Previously, if a SELECT statement with a [GROUP BY ALL](../../sql-reference/constructs/group-by.md) clause defined and referred to a column alias
for an [aggregate](../../sql-reference/functions-aggregation.md), the statement would fail with the error
`not a valid group by expression`.

For example, the following statement has a GROUP BY ALL clause, defines the column alias `total` for an aggregate, and refers
to that alias (`ROUND(total)`):

```sqlexample
SELECT ... , SUM(my_column) AS total, ROUND(total) FROM mytable GROUP BY ALL ... ;
```

This statement would fail with the following error message:

```output
Error Code: 000979
  Error Message: SQL compilation error:
    [SUM(MYTABLE.MY_COLUMN)] is not a valid group by expression
```

This issue has been fixed, and these types of statements no longer fail with `not a valid group by expression` errors.

## Web Interface Updates

### Can no longer add or manage payment details using Classic Console

With this release, customers can no longer add or manage payment details for Snowflake On Demand using the Classic Console web
interface. Instead, you must use Snowsight to manage payment details.

For details, see [Converting to a paid account](../../user-guide/admin-trial-account.md).

## Release Notes Change Log

| Announcement | Update |
| --- | --- |
| *Can no longer add or manage payment details using Classic Console* | **Added** to *Web Interface Updates* |
| *Fixed an issue with column aliases for aggregates and the GROUP BY ALL clause* | **Added** to *SQL Updates* |
