# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_08.md

# February 26-28, 2024 — 8.8 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release Notes Change Log.

## Data Lake Updates

### Secure Data Sharing for Apache Iceberg™ tables

With this release, we are pleased to announce Secure Data Sharing support for Apache Iceberg™ tables using shares. Before this release, only
secure views on Iceberg tables could be shared. You can now directly share an Iceberg table without having to create a secure view.

For more information, see:

* [Secure Data Sharing](../../user-guide/data-sharing-intro.md)
* [Apache Iceberg™ tables](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg.md)

### Query an Apache Iceberg™ table without granting the USAGE privilege on related objects

With this release, we are pleased to announce that a role can now query an Apache Iceberg™ table in Snowflake
without being granted or inheriting the USAGE privilege on the external volume or catalog integration associated with the table.

For more information, see [Apache Iceberg™ tables](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg.md).

## Extensibility Updates

### External network access — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of external network access, with which you can access network
locations external to Snowflake from within procedure and UDF handler code. This GA release is available on Google Cloud. External
network access was already generally available for accounts using AWS and Azure (except in the Gov region).

When setting up external network access, you create a network rule that represents the external network location. If your handler code
will need to authenticate with the external location, you create a secret containing the credentials needed. In handler code, you can
use APIs to retrieve credential values from the secret.

For more information, see [External network access overview](../../developer-guide/external-network-access/external-network-access-overview.md).

## Release Notes Change Log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 27-Feb-24 |
| *Query an Apache Iceberg™ table without granting the USAGE privilege on related objects* | **Added** to *Data Lake Updates* | 29-Feb-24 |
