# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_21.md

# May 28-30, 2024 — 8.21 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Triggered tasks — *Preview*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of triggered tasks.

With triggered tasks, your tasks can run only when the related stream has new data. This replaces the need to continuously run your tasks to check for data in stream.

For more information, see [Triggered tasks](../../user-guide/tasks-triggered.md).

## SQL updates

### Email notification integrations no longer limited to 10

Previously, you could define no more than 10 email notification integrations for an account.

With this release, this limit has been lifted. You can define more than 10 email notification integrations for an account.

### UNPIVOT supports rows with NULLs in results

You can now use the `{ INCLUDE | EXCLUDE } NULLS` option in an UNPIVOT subclause to specify whether to include rows with NULLs in the results. By default, rows with NULLs are excluded. To include rows with NULLs in the results, specify `INCLUDE NULLS` in the UNPIVOT subclause.

For more information, see [UNPIVOT](../../sql-reference/constructs/unpivot.md).

## Data loading / unloading updates

### New Parquet file format option USE_VECTORIZED_SCANNER — *General Availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of a new file format option `USE_VECTORIZED_SCANNER`.

The default value for this file format option is `FALSE`. In a future BCR, the default value will be `TRUE`.

When setting `USE_VECTORIZED_SCANNER = TRUE`, you can use the vectorized scanner for loading Parquet files. The vectorized scanner is well suited for the columnar format of a [Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/file-format/) file and it significantly reduces the ingestion latency. The scanner only downloads relevant sections of the Parquet file into memory, such as the subset of selected columns.

For more information, see [USE_VECTORIZED_SCANNER](../../sql-reference/sql/copy-into-table.md).

## Streamlit in Snowflake updates

### Support for v1.29.0 and v1.31.1 of the Streamlit library

With this release, we are pleased to announce support for the 1.29.0 and 1.31.1 versions of the Streamlit open source library in Streamlit in Snowflake.

For more information, see [Supported versions of the Streamlit library in warehouse runtimes](../../developer-guide/streamlit/app-development/dependency-management.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 27-May-24 |
