# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2024/8_29.md

# August 07-08, 2024 — 8.29 Release Notes

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
>
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Security updates

### Session policies: Support added for secondary roles

With this release, we are pleased to announce support for specifying secondary roles in a session policy. The `ALLOWED_SECONDARY_ROLES`
property of a session policy enables you to scope the set of secondary roles available to a user for the duration of the session. After
you set the session policy on the account or a user in the account, the enforcement of the secondary roles occurs when the Snowflake
session begins.

Depending on how you configure the property and whether you set the session policy on your account or a user in the account, you can do
the following:

* Allow secondary roles in the session.
* Disallow secondary roles in the session.
* Allow only specific secondary roles.

The user can activate all of the allowed secondary roles or a list of secondary roles that are specified by the session policy with the
USE SECONDARY ROLES command.

For more information, see:

* [Using session policies](../../user-guide/session-policies-using.md)
* [CREATE SESSION POLICY](../../sql-reference/sql/create-session-policy.md)
* [USE SECONDARY ROLES](../../sql-reference/sql/use-secondary-roles.md)

## Extensibility updates

### Python user-defined aggregate functions — *General availability*

With this release, Snowflake is pleased to announce the general availability of support for writing user-defined aggregate functions (UDAFs)
with a Python handler.

You can use Snowpark Python APIs to create and call user-defined aggregate functions (UDAFs), which take one or more rows as input and produce a
single row of output. A UDAF operates on values across multiple rows to perform mathematical calculations such as sum, average, counting, finding
minimum or maximum values, standard deviation, and estimation, as well as some non-mathematical operations.

For more information, see:

* [Python user-defined aggregate functions](../../developer-guide/udf/python/udf-python-aggregate-functions.md) (for SQL- and Python-based instructions)
* [Creating User-Defined Aggregate Functions (UDAFs) for DataFrames in Python](../../developer-guide/snowpark/python/creating-udafs.md) (for a Snowpark Python-based guide)

### Access to Git repositories from Snowflake — *General availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of access to Git repositories from within Snowflake. Once you configure
Snowflake to act as a client of your Git repository, you can fetch a full clone of your remote repository to a Snowflake Git repository clone, which
represents a local repository. You can reference these fetched files in procedure and function handler code, execute SQL and Python code in
Snowflake, copy file contents into Snowflake worksheets, and more.

For more information, see [Using a Git repository in Snowflake](../../developer-guide/git/git-overview.md).

## Data lake updates

### Apache Iceberg™ tables: Support for government regions — *General availability*

With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of support for
connecting Snowflake to external storage for Apache Iceberg™ tables in [government regions](../../user-guide/intro-regions.md).

For more information, see [CREATE EXTERNAL VOLUME](../../sql-reference/sql/create-external-volume.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 02-Aug-24 |
| *Iceberg tables: Support for government regions* | **Added** to *Data lake updates* section | 05-Aug-24 |
