# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_02.md

# 9.2 Release notes (with behavior changes): Jan 22, 2025-Feb 13, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Behavior change bundles

This release contains the following behavior change bundles:

| Bundle Name | Status in this Release | Previous Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [2025_01](../bcr-bundles/2025_01_bundle.md) | Disabled by default; admins can enable for testing | N/A (introduced in this release) |
| [2024_08](../bcr-bundles/2024_08_bundle.md) | Enabled by default; admins can disable for opt-out | Disabled by default |
| [2024_07](../bcr-bundles/2024_07_bundle.md) | Generally enabled; admins can no longer enable/disable | Enabled by default |

The status for each bundle will change in the next behavior change release, planned for March 2025; however, this schedule is subject to
change.

For more information about bundle statuses and how they may impact your accounts, see [About Behavior Changes](../intro-bcr-releases.md).

## Non-bundled behavior changes

The following changes aren’t part of a bundle, and therefore can’t be disabled:

* [Secure objects: Redaction of information in error messages](../bcr-bundles/un-bundled/bcr-1858.md)

## New features

### Triggered tasks now can operate as Serverless Tasks (*General availability*)

Snowflake can now automatically manage the compute resources for triggered tasks to be completed within a target interval that you specify.
To convert an existing triggered task to a Serverless Task:

1. Suspend the task.
2. Remove the `WAREHOUSE` parameter and add the `TARGET_COMPLETION_INTERVAL` parameter.
3. Resume the task.

For more information, see [Triggered tasks](../../user-guide/tasks-triggered.md) and [Serverless tasks](../../user-guide/tasks-intro.md).

### Trust Center: Manage individual scanners

Trust Center scanners are scheduled background processes that check your account for security risks based on how you configured your account.
With this release, you can manage individual scanners in a scanner package. When a scanner package is enabled, you can manage the scanners in
the scanner package in the following ways:

* Enable or disable individual scanners
* Change the schedule of individual scanners
* Manually start individual scanners

For more information, see [Managing scanners](../../user-guide/trust-center/using-the-trust-center.md).

## Security updates

### Outbound private connectivity for Microsoft Azure Government regions

You can use Azure Private Link for outbound network traffic originating from Microsoft Azure Government regions. This allows you to harden
your security posture for Snowflake features like Snowpark Container Services and external volumes for Apache Iceberg™ tables.

For information about using Azure Private Link for outbound network traffic, see [Private connectivity for outbound network traffic](../../user-guide/private-connectivity-outbound.md).

## SQL updates

### New SQL functions

The following function is now available with this release:

| Function category | New function | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| System (Information) | [SYSTEM$SHOW_BUDGETS_FOR_RESOURCE](../../sql-reference/functions/system_show_budgets_for_resource.md) | Returns a string containing a list of the budgets that track a specified resource (for example, a table or a schema). |

### Additional CREATE OR ALTER commands (*Preview*)

With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of additional CREATE OR ALTER commands. These commands combine the functionality of
the CREATE command and the ALTER command. A CREATE OR ALTER statement executes as a CREATE statement if the object doesn’t exist. If it does
exist, it transforms the object according to the object definition in the statement.

CREATE OR ALTER TABLE provides a declarative and idempotent approach to defining your Snowflake objects. When used together with the Git
integration, this enables an Infrastructure-as-Code (IaC) approach to database change management.

With this preview, the following additional objects are supported:

* [CREATE OR ALTER AUTHENTICATION POLICY](../../sql-reference/sql/create-authentication-policy.md): Creates an authentication policy if it doesn’t exist or alters an existing authentication
  policy.
* [CREATE OR ALTER FILE FORMAT](../../sql-reference/sql/create-file-format.md): Creates a new named file format if it doesn’t exist or alters an existing file format.
* [CREATE OR ALTER TAG](../../sql-reference/sql/create-tag.md): Creates a tag if it doesn’t exist or alters an existing tag.

For more information, see [CREATE OR ALTER <object>](../../sql-reference/sql/create-or-alter.md).

## Data lake updates

### Apache Iceberg™ tables: Support for writing Apache Iceberg metadata for Delta-based tables

With this release, we are pleased to announce support for writing metadata for Delta-based Iceberg tables to your external cloud storage.

For more information, see [Changes to Apache Iceberg™ tables created from Delta files](../bcr-bundles/2025_01/bcr-1852.md).

> **Note:**
>
> In order to write Iceberg metadata for Delta-based tables, you must [enable the 2025_01 bundle in your account](../bcr-bundles/managing-behavior-change-releases.md).
>
> To enable this bundle in your account, execute the following statement:
>
> ```sqlexample
> SELECT SYSTEM$ENABLE_BEHAVIOR_CHANGE_BUNDLE('2025_01');
> ```

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 17-Jan-25 |
| Release notes | Added new feature: Triggered tasks can operate as Serverless Tasks | 29-Jan-25 |
| Release notes | Correction: Triggered tasks do not yet support Data Shares | 14-Feb-25 |
| Release notes | Added new feature: Additional CREATE OR ALTER commands (Preview) | 25-Feb-25 |
