# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_05.md

# 9.5 Release notes: Mar 03, 2025-Mar 06, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Automatic sensitive data classification (*General availability*)

You can now use Snowflake to automatically detect sensitive data using native and custom classifiers. With automatic
sensitive data classification, user-defined tags and masking policies can be automatically applied to columns when sensitive data
is detected.

For information, see [Use SQL to set up sensitive data classification](../../user-guide/classify-auto.md).

## SQL updates

### Snowflake Scripting: Asynchronous child jobs (*General availability*)

With this release, Snowflake Scripting (SQL) support for asynchronous child jobs in stored procedures is generally available. Stored procedures run asynchronous child jobs concurrently. A child job can be any valid SQL statement, including SELECT statements and DML statements, such as INSERT or UPDATE.

To run a query as an asynchronous child job, add the ASYNC keyword to the query. When this keyword is omitted, the stored procedure runs child jobs sequentially, and each child job waits for the running child job to finish before it starts.

Running multiple child jobs concurrently can improve efficiency
and reduce overall run time.

For more information, see [Working with asynchronous child jobs](../../developer-guide/snowflake-scripting/asynchronous-child-jobs.md).

### Snowflake Scripting: Improved error messages

With this release, Snowflake Scripting error messages have been improved to provide more accurate information about the error and about the line number in the code that caused the error.

For example, the following Snowflake Scripting code returns an error:

```sqlexample
EXECUTE IMMEDIATE $$
BEGIN
  LET c1 := 0;
  IF (c1 = 0) THEN
    INSERT invalid_text VALUES (1);
  END IF;
END;
$$
;
```

In past releases, the following error message was returned:

```output
001003 (42000): SQL compilation error:
syntax error line 4 at position 5 unexpected '('.
syntax error line 4 at position 9 unexpected '='.
```

With this release, the following error message is returned:

```output
001003 (42000): SQL compilation error:
syntax error line 5 at position 11 unexpected 'invalid_text'.
```

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 28-Feb-25 |
| Automatic sensitive data classification — GA announcement | **Added** to *New features* section | 03-Mar-25 |
