# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_07.md

# 9.7 Release notes (with behavior changes): Mar 17, 2025-Mar 27, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Behavior change bundles

This release contains the following behavior change bundles:

| Bundle Name | Status in this Release | Previous Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [2025_02](../bcr-bundles/2025_02_bundle.md) | Disabled by default; admins can enable for testing | N/A (introduced in this release) |
| [2025_01](../bcr-bundles/2025_01_bundle.md) | Enabled by default; admins can disable for opt-out | Disabled by default |
| [2024_08](../bcr-bundles/2024_08_bundle.md) | Generally enabled; admins can no longer enable/disable | Enabled by default |

The status for each bundle will change in the next behavior change release, planned for April 2025; however, this schedule is subject to
change.

For more information about bundle statuses and how they may impact your accounts, see [About Behavior Changes](../intro-bcr-releases.md).

## New features

### Grant database roles to a Snowflake Native App — *Preview*

With this release, providers may grant a database role to a Snowflake Native App. This includes database roles in a database imported
from a data share or the SNOWFLAKE database.

For example, to allow an app named `hello_snowflake_app` to access all tables in a database named `db1`:

```sqlexample
GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN DATABASE DB1 TO DATABASE ROLE db1.viewer;
GRANT DATABASE ROLE db1.viewer TO APPLICATION hello_snowflake_app;
```

### DISABLE_UI_DOWNLOAD_BUTTON object parameter for Snowsight and the Classic Console (*General availability*)

With this release, the DISABLE_UI_DOWNLOAD_BUTTON object parameter is now available in Snowsight and the Classic Console.

You can set this parameter for accounts or users to hide or display the button for downloading data in Snowsight or the
Classic Console, such as a table returned from running a query in a worksheet.

To hide the download button in Snowsight and the Classic Console from all users in an account, execute the following SQL
statements:

```sqlexample
USE ROLE ACCOUNTADMIN;
ALTER ACCOUNT SET DISABLE_UI_DOWNLOAD_BUTTON = TRUE;
```

To hide the download button in Snowsight and the Classic Console from a specific user, execute the following SQL statements:

```sqlexample
USE ROLE ACCOUNTADMIN;
ALTER USER <username> SET DISABLE_UI_DOWNLOAD_BUTTON =  TRUE;
```

By default, the DISABLE_UI_DOWNLOAD_BUTTON object parameter is set to FALSE, which displays the download button for all users in an
account.

For more information, see [DISABLE_UI_DOWNLOAD_BUTTON](../../sql-reference/parameters.md).

## Replication updates

### Schema-level replication for failover groups (*General availability*)

With this release, you can choose a subset of schemas for replication for databases in failover groups. To do so, you use the ALTER DATABASE and ALTER SCHEMA commands to set the REPLICABLE_WITH_FAILOVER_GROUPS property on a database and/or specific schemas within that database.

For more information, see [Schema-level replication for failover groups](../../user-guide/account-replication-config.md).

## SQL updates

### Semi-structured data: XML format (*General availability*)

Snowflake support for the XML format is now generally available.

For more information, see [About XML](../../user-guide/semistructured-data-formats.md) and [Introduction to loading semi-structured data](../../user-guide/semistructured-intro.md).

### Spread operator

With this release, you can use the new spread operator (`**`) to expand an array into a list of individual values.

For more information, see [Expansion operators](../../sql-reference/operators-expansion.md).

### New maximum size limits for database objects (*Preview*)

With this release, the new maximum allowed length for columns of type VARCHAR, VARIANT, ARRAY, and OBJECT is 128 MB, and the new maximum allowed length for columns of type BINARY, GEOGRAPHY, and GEOMETRY is 64 MB.

To use this feature, you must [enable the 2025_02 bundle](../bcr-bundles/2025_02_bundle.md).

For more information, see [Size limits for database objects](../../user-guide/data-load-considerations-prepare.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 14-Mar-25 |
| Grant database roles to a Snowflake Native App — Preview | **Added** to *New features* section | 27-Mar-25 |
| DISABLE_UI_DOWNLOAD_BUTTON object parameter for Snowsight and the Classic Console — GA announcement | **Added** to *New features* section | 27-Mar-25 |
