# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_19.md

# 9.19 Release notes: Jul 14, 2025-Jul 17, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> The release has completed.
> For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## SQL updates

### Data types: Structured types support for standard Snowflake tables (*General availability*)

With this release, you can define a structured type column in a standard Snowflake table.

For more information, see [Structured data types](../../sql-reference/data-types-structured.md).

> **Note:**
>
> Structured types aren’t supported for dynamic, hybrid, or external tables.

## Data loading / unloading updates

### Optimize data ingestion with pre-clustering for Snowpipe Streaming - high-performance architecture (*Preview*)

With this release, we are pleased to announce a new feature for Snowpipe Streaming with high-performance architecture (Preview) that
enables pre-clustering of your data directly during ingestion. This helps to significantly improve query performance on your target
tables by ensuring data is sorted before it’s committed.

To use this feature, your target table must be configured with clustering keys defined. You can then enable this behavior within your
Snowpipe Streaming definition using the new CLUSTER_AT_INGEST_TIME option in your COPY INTO statement, as the following example shows.

```sqlexample
CREATE OR REPLACE PIPE TEST_PRECLUSTERED_PIPE
AS
    COPY INTO TEST_PRECLUSTERED_TABLE (num) FROM (
            SELECT $1:num::number as num FROM TABLE(
                DATA_SOURCE(
                    TYPE => 'STREAMING')
        ))
        CLUSTER_AT_INGEST_TIME=TRUE;
```

For more information, see [CLUSTER_AT_INGEST_TIME](../../sql-reference/sql/copy-into-table.md).

### COPY FILES (*General availability*)

Use the COPY FILES command to move files from a source location to an output stage.

For details, see [COPY FILES](../../sql-reference/sql/copy-files.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | 09-Jul-25 |
| COPY FILES (General availability) | **Added** to Security section | 09-Jul-25 |
