# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_23.md

# 9.23 Release notes: Aug 11, 2025-Aug 15, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> This release has completed. For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## SQL updates

### Snowflake Scripting user-defined functions (UDFs)

With this release, you can create SQL UDFs that contain [Snowflake Scripting](../../developer-guide/snowflake-scripting/index.md) procedural language. Snowflake Scripting UDFs can be called in
a SQL statement, such as a SELECT statement or INSERT statement. Therefore, they are more flexible than a Snowflake Scripting stored
procedure, which can only be called in a SQL [CALL](../../sql-reference/sql/call.md) command.

For more information, see [Snowflake Scripting UDFs](../../developer-guide/udf/sql/udf-sql-procedural-functions.md).

### Private facts and metrics in semantic views

If you are defining a fact or metric only for use in calculations in the semantic view and you don’t want the fact or metric to
be returned in a query, you can specify the PRIVATE keyword to mark the fact or metric as private.

Facts and metrics that are marked as private cannot be queried or used in a query condition.

For information, see [Marking a fact or metric as private](../../user-guide/views-semantic/sql.md).

## Data loading / unloading updates

### Apache Arrow library upgrade to version 21.0.0

Snowflake 9.23 upgrades to Apache Arrow 21.0.0 for unloading Apache Parquet data.

If your data processing pipeline uses third-party tools to read Parquet files written by Snowflake, we recommend that you verify
compatibility with the updated Apache Arrow version.

## Data pipeline updates

### Dynamic tables: Support for UNION in incremental refresh mode

The UNION set operator is now supported with dynamic table incremental refresh, which works like the combination of the UNION ALL and SELECT
DISTINCT operators.

Other set operators are not currently supported. For a complete list, see [Supported queries in incremental and full refresh modes](../../user-guide/dynamic-tables-supported-queries.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | Aug 08, 2025 |
| Dynamic tables: Support for UNION in incremental refresh mode | **Added** to Data pipeline updates | Aug 12, 2025 |
| Private facts and metrics in semantic views | **Added** to SQL updates | Aug 26, 2025 |
