# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_24.md

# 9.24 Release notes: Aug 18, 2025-Aug 20, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> This release has completed. For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Security updates

### Self-service activation of Tri-Secret Secure (*General availability*)

Self-service activation of Tri-Secret Secure is now generally available and is no longer in [Preview](../preview-features.md).

Customers with the ACCOUNTADMIN role can activate Tri-Secret Secure for their Snowflake account using system functions without requiring
Snowflake support. The self-service procedure also supports deactivating Tri-Secret Secure and simplifies working with your customer managed
key (CMK).

For more information, see [Tri-Secret Secure self-service in Snowflake](../../user-guide/security-encryption-tss-self-serve.md).

## SQL updates

### ALTER LISTING command to simplify adding and removing targets (*General availability*)

You can now add or remove targets (accounts, roles, and organizations) from a listing without passing all of the existing targets. With this release, the [ALTER LISTING](../../sql-reference/sql/alter-listing.md) command allows you to provide a manifest section that contains only the targets you want to add or remove. This partial manifest reuses the familiar structures `targets`, `external_targets`, and `organization_targets`, which are already defined in the [listing manifest reference](../../progaccess/listing-manifest-reference.md).

## New features

### Snowflake Native App Framework - MONITOR privilege support for apps (*General availability*)

The Snowflake Native App Framework supports granting the MONITOR privilege on an app to a user role or to another app. To grant the MONITOR privilege, run the following commands:

```sqlexample
GRANT MONITOR ON APPLICATION <app_name> TO ROLE <app_user>;
GRANT MONITOR ON APPLICATION <app_name> TO APPLICATION <other_app_name>;
```

The MONITOR privilege allows the grantee to run the following commands:

```sqlexample
DESC APPLICATION <app_name>;
DESC SPECIFICATION SPEC IN APPLICATION <app_name>;
SHOW APPROVED SPECIFICATIONS IN APPLICATION <app_name>;
SHOW OBJECTS OWNED BY APPLICATION <app_name>;
SHOW REFERENCES IN APPLICATION <app_name>;
SHOW SPECIFICATIONS IN APPLICATION <app_name>;
```

The owner of the app has privileges to run these commands by default. The MONITOR privilege allows the app owner to delegate monitoring of
an app to a user role or another app.

For more information, see [Monitor an app](../../developer-guide/native-apps/ui-consumer-managing-applications.md).

## Data lake updates

### Set a target file size for Apache Iceberg™ tables (*Preview*)

You can now set a target Parquet file size for Iceberg tables. Doing so improves cross-engine query performance when you use an external
Iceberg engine such as Apache Spark, Delta, or Trino that’s optimized for larger file sizes. You can set the target file size when you
create a table, or update it later by using the [ALTER ICEBERG TABLE](../../sql-reference/sql/alter-iceberg-table.md) command.
For more information, see [Set a target file size](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg-manage.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | Aug 15, 2025 |
| Snowflake Native App Framework: MONITOR privilege support for apps | **Added** to New features | Aug 21, 2025 |
| Set a target file size for Apache Iceberg™ tables (Preview) | **Added** to Data lake updates | Aug 21, 2025 |
| Self-service activation of Tri-Secret Secure (General availability) | **Added** to Security updates | Aug 21, 2025 |
| ALTER LISTING command to simplify adding and removing targets (General availability) | **Added** to SQL updates | Aug 21, 2025 |
