# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_29.md

# 9.29 Release Notes: Sep 24, 2025-Sep 26, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> This release has completed. For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## New features

### Declarative Shared Native Apps (*Preview*)

Declarative Sharing allows providers to share and sell data products, enhanced by Snowflake Notebooks to help Snowflake consumers visualize and
explore the data.

Declarative Shared Native Apps is in Preview.

Declarative Sharing’s simplified development experience makes it easy to get started quickly.

Key features include:

* **Streamlined Development**: Providers can define shared objects, including notebooks, using a straightforward YAML file format, with
  automatic version control.
* **Live Notebook Development**: You can interactively develop notebooks, edit notebook content and share it, all from within Snowsight.
* **Controlled Data Visibility**: Application roles enable providers to categorize data, giving consumers easy control over data visibility.
* **Consumer-managed Resources**: The application runs in the consumer’s account, allowing them to manage resource usage and costs.
* **Secure Execution**: Declaratively shared applications operate within a tightly controlled environment, ensuring strict limitations on
  their actions and data access.

For more information, see [About Declarative Sharing in the Native Application Framework](../../developer-guide/declarative-sharing/about.md).

### Cortex Agent Monitoring (*Preview*)

Cortex Agent Monitoring gives you access to detailed logs and tracing for your agents, accessible through Snowsight. Your agent’s logs include details on LLM planning, tool execution, SQL generation and execution, and more.

For more information, see [Monitor Cortex Agent requests](../../user-guide/snowflake-cortex/cortex-agents-monitor.md).

## Data collaboration updates

### Cross-Cloud Auto-Fulfillment support for open table formats

You can now share open table formats, such as Apache Iceberg and Delta Lake, in listings across regions and clouds and enable auto-fulfillment on those listings.

For more information, see [Using auto-fulfillment with open table formats](../../collaboration/use-auto-fulfillment-with-open-table-formats.md).

## Data pipeline updates

### CREATE OR ALTER DYNAMIC TABLE (*Preview*)

The CREATE OR ALTER DYNAMIC TABLE command combines the functionality of the CREATE DYNAMIC TABLE command and the ALTER DYNAMIC TABLE command.
It executes as a CREATE statement if the dynamic table doesn’t exist. If it does exist, it transforms the dynamic table according to the
object definition in the statement.

For more information, see [CREATE OR ALTER <object>](../../sql-reference/sql/create-or-alter.md) and [CREATE OR ALTER DYNAMIC TABLE](../../sql-reference/sql/create-dynamic-table.md).

## Data governance updates

### Data quality: FRESHNESS data metric function improvement

You can now associate the FRESHNESS data metric function (DMF) with a table without specifying a column argument, which lets you determine
the last time a DML command acted on the table. Previously, you needed to associate the FRESHNESS with a timestamp column to determine the
last time the table was modified.

For more information, see the [FRESHNESS DMF](../../sql-reference/functions/dmf_freshness.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | Sep 19, 2025 |
| Support for Scala version 2.13 (Preview) | **Removed** from Extensibility updates | Sep 22, 2025 |
| Cortex Agent Monitoring (Preview) | **Added** to New Features | Sep 24, 2025 |
| CREATE OR ALTER DYNAMIC TABLE (Preview) | **Added** to Data pipeline updates | Sep 25, 2025 |
| Cross-Cloud Auto-Fulfillment support for open table formats | **Added** to New Features | Sep 26, 2025 |
