# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2025/9_33.md

# 9.33 Release Notes: Oct 21, 2025-Oct 23, 2025

> **Attention:**
>
> This release has completed. For differences between the in-advance and final versions of these release notes, see Release notes change log.

## Security updates

### AWS cross-region support for PrivateLink (*General availability*)

Snowflake now supports using PrivateLink to privately connect a VPC endpoint in one AWS region to your Snowflake account in another supported
AWS region. You can also connect your Snowflake account to hosted VPC endpoint services across different AWS regions.

For more information, see [AWS PrivateLink and Snowflake](../../user-guide/admin-security-privatelink.md).

### Outbound network traffic to stages and volumes on Google Cloud Storage supports private connectivity (*General availability*)

You can now route outbound traffic to the Google Cloud Storage service through Google Cloud Private Service Connect.

For more information, see [Private connectivity to external stages for Google Cloud](../../user-guide/data-load-gcs-private.md)
and [Private connectivity to external volumes for Google Cloud](../../user-guide/tables-iceberg-configure-external-volume-gcs-private.md).

### Snowflake-managed network rules (*General availability*)

Snowflake provides the SNOWFLAKE.NETWORK_SECURITY schema that contains a suite of Snowflake-managed (built-in) network rules. These network
rules provide a secure, consistent, fast, and low-maintenance way to manage network security for popular SaaS and partner applications.

For more information, see [Snowflake-managed network rules](../../user-guide/network-rules.md).

## SQL updates

### Semantic views: Support for ASOF JOIN

In a semantic view, you can now use an ASOF JOIN to join two logical tables on a date, time, timestamp, or numeric range, where
the values in one column must be in the same range as the values in the other column. When you define the relationship between the
two tables, specify the ASOF keyword with the referenced column name. For example:

```sqlexample
RELATIONSHIPS(
  my_relationship AS
    logical_table_1(
      col_table_1
    )
    REFERENCES
    logical_table_2(
      ASOF col_table_2
    )
)
```

For information, see [Using a date, time, timestamp, or numeric range to join logical tables](../../user-guide/views-semantic/sql.md).

## Release notes change log

| Announcement | Update | Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Release notes | Initial publication (preview) | Oct 17, 2025 |
| Semantic views: Support for ASOF JOIN | **Added** to SQL updates | Oct 22, 2025 |
| AWS cross-region support for PrivateLink | **Added** to Security updates | Oct 24, 2025 |
| Outbound network traffic to stages and volumes on Google Cloud Storage supports private connectivity | **Added** to Security updates | Oct 24, 2025 |
| Snowflake-managed network rules | **Added** to Security updates | Oct 24, 2025 |
