# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/stored-procedures/associate_semantic_category_tags.md

# ASSOCIATE_SEMANTIC_CATEGORY_TAGS

> **Note:**
>
> ASSOCIATE_SEMANTIC_CATEGORY_TAGS is a legacy stored procedure. Snowflake recommends using other methods of
> implementing [sensitive data classification](../../user-guide/classify-intro.md).

Takes the results of the EXTRACT_SEMANTIC_CATEGORIES function on a table/view and applies the results as tags on the supported columns
in the table/view.

Before calling this stored procedure, you should first execute the EXTRACT_SEMANTIC_CATEGORIES function on the table/view and determine
whether you are satisfied with the results generated by the classification algorithm.

## Syntax

```sqlsyntax
ASSOCIATE_SEMANTIC_CATEGORY_TAGS( '<object_name>' , <category_extraction_result> )
```

## Arguments

`object_name`
:   The name of the table, external table, view, or materialized view containing the columns to be classified. If a database and schema are
    not in use in the current session, the name must be fully-qualified.

    The name must be specified exactly as it is stored in the database. If the name contains special characters, capitalization, or blank
    spaces, the name must be enclosed first in double-quotes and then in single quotes.

`category_extraction_result`
:   The result from executing the EXTRACT_SEMANTIC_CATEGORIES function on the same table/view.

## Usage notes

* Globally-defined stored procedures utilize caller’s rights. For more details, see [Understanding caller’s rights and owner’s rights stored procedures](../../developer-guide/stored-procedure/stored-procedures-rights.md).
* The function applies the Classification system tags from the top level of the classification results returned by the
  [EXTRACT_SEMANTIC_CATEGORIES](../functions/extract_semantic_categories.md) function. Alternate values are not applied.

  If you want to apply alternate values:

  * You can store the classification results in a table and edit the results before applying them or
  * Apply the values manually using [ALTER TABLE … MODIFY COLUMN … SET TAG](../sql/alter-table-column.md).
* To unset a Classification system tag from a column, use an ALTER TABLE … MODIFY COLUMN … UNSET TAG statement.
* This stored procedure is no longer being updated to coincide with additional enhancements to
  [Data Classification](../../user-guide/classify-intro.md).

## Examples

Extract the semantic and privacy categories for the `my_db.my_schema.hr_data` table and apply the categories as tags for the table:

> ```sqlexample
> USE ROLE data_engineer;
>
> CALL ASSOCIATE_SEMANTIC_CATEGORY_TAGS('mydb.my_schema.hr_data',
>                                       EXTRACT_SEMANTIC_CATEGORIES('mydb.my_schema.hr_data'));
> ```

Apply the results from [EXTRACT_SEMANTIC_CATEGORIES](../functions/extract_semantic_categories.md) that have been stored in the `classification_results`
table:

> ```sqlexample
> USE ROLE data_engineer;
>
> CALL ASSOCIATE_SEMANTIC_CATEGORY_TAGS('mydb.my_schema.hr_data',
>                                       (SELECT * FROM classification_results));
> ```

Modify the results from [EXTRACT_SEMANTIC_CATEGORIES](../functions/extract_semantic_categories.md) in the `classification_results` table and apply the
tags:

> ```sqlexample
> USE ROLE data_engineer;
>
> UPDATE classification_results SET V =
>     OBJECT_INSERT(V,'LNAME',OBJECT_INSERT(
>         OBJECT_INSERT(V:LNAME,'semantic_category','NAME',TRUE),
>         'privacy_category','IDENTIFIER',TRUE),
>         TRUE
>         );
>
> CALL ASSOCIATE_SEMANTIC_CATEGORY_TAGS('mydb.my_schema.hr_data',
>                                       (SELECT * FROM classification_results));
> ```
