# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_06/bcr-1698.md

# Snowpark Container Services: New stage mount allotment limit per compute pool node

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_06 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_06_bundle.md).

When choosing a compute pool node on which to run a service instance, Snowflake behavior is:

Before the change:
:   Snowflake ensures that the resources requested in the `containers.resources` field in the [specification](../../../developer-guide/snowpark-container-services/specification-reference.md) are available on the specific node.

After the change:
:   Snowflake also ensures that the compute pool nodes do not exceed eight stage mount allotments per node.

    Snowflake supports storage volumes for use by application containers. Snowflake internal stage is one of the [supported storage volume types](../../../developer-guide/snowpark-container-services/snowflake-stage-volume.md).

    For optimal performance, Snowflake now limits the number of service instances that use a stage volume mount to eight per compute pool node. It does not matter whether these instances belong to the same service or different services.

    When the limit is reached, Snowflake does not use that node to start new service instances that use a stage volume. Instead, Snowflake starts the service instance on a different node in the compute pool.

    To accommodate this stage mount allotment limit on a node, in some cases, you can increase the maximum number of nodes that you request for a compute pool. This ensures that additional nodes are available for Snowflake to start your service instances.

Ref: 1698
