# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2026_01/bcr-2158.md

# ALTER USER and DESCRIBE USER commands: LOGIN_NAME mapped to SCIM_USER_NAME

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2026_01 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle history](../2026_01_bundle.md).

## ALTER USER command: LOGIN_NAME mapped to SCIM_USER_NAME

The [ALTER USER](../../../sql-reference/sql/alter-user.md) command behaves in the following manner:

Before the change:
:   Running the ALTER USER SET LOGIN_NAME command never updates the SCIM_USER_NAME field.

After the change:
:   Running the ALTER USER SET LOGIN_NAME command updates the SCIM_USER_NAME field
    *if and only if* it is previously populated. If the user’s SCIM_USER_NAME field is
    not populated, the field remains blank.

## DESCRIBE USER command: New column in output

The [DESCRIBE USER](../../../sql-reference/sql/desc-user.md) command behaves in the following manner:

Before the change:
:   The SCIM_USER_NAME field is not visible in the output of DESCRIBE USER.

After the change:
:   The SCIM_USER_NAME field is visible in the output of DESCRIBE USER.

When this behavior change bundle is enabled, the output of the DESCRIBE USER command
includes the following new column:

| Column name | Data Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SCIM_USER_NAME | VARCHAR | LOGIN_NAME defined for a user in a Security Identification Module (SCIM). |

### Displaying SCIM_USER_NAME in DESCRIBE USER

For all accounts, running DESCRIBE USER outputs a new row displaying the
SCIM_USER_NAME. Only users that were provisioned or updated with a SCIM
integration have that field set. Other users don’t have that field set.

### Updating SCIM_USER_NAME on ALTER USER SET LOGIN_NAME

If the target user has SCIM_USER_NAME set, that field is updated to the raw value
provided in the ALTER USER request. For example:

```sqlexample
ALTER USER user1 RENAME TO "user2"
```

This updates the user to have the following values:

* NAME: `user2`
* LOGIN_NAME: `USER2`
* SCIM_USER_NAME: `"user2"`

This matches the behavior in the SCIM API.

If the target user doesn’t have the SCIM_USER_NAME set, the field remains blank.

#### Examples: Valid requests

```sqlexample
ALTER USER user SET LOGIN_NAME='user1'
```

After this valid request, the user has LOGIN_NAME set to `USER1` and the SCIM_USER_NAME
set to `USER1`.

```sqlexample
ALTER USER user SET LOGIN_NAME='user1' SCIM_USER_NAME='User1'
```

After this valid request, the user has LOGIN_NAME set to `USER1` and the SCIM_USER_NAME
set to `User1`.

```sqlexample
ALTER USER user SET LOGIN_NAME='user1' SCIM_USER_NAME='"User1"'
```

After this valid request, the user has LOGIN_NAME set to `USER1` and the SCIM_USER_NAME
set to `"User1"`.

#### Examples: Invalid requests

```sqlexample
ALTER USER user SET SCIM_USER_NAME='value'
```

This request is invalid. SCIM_USER_NAME can only be provided when LOGIN_NAME is
present in the ALTER USER request.

```sqlexample
ALTER USER user SET LOGIN_NAME='user1' SCIM_USER_NAME='user2'
```

This request is invalid. SCIM_USER_NAME `user2` isn’t a case insensitive match against
the LOGIN_NAME `user1`.

Ref: 2158
