# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/un-bundled/bcr-1657.md

# Change of Certificate Authority and OCSP Allowlist for AWS Customers

> **Note:**
>
> The changes mentioned in this BCR affect only customers using Snowflake on AWS (including AWS PrivateLink).

## Changes

As part of Snowflake’s continued commitment to providing best-in-class transport-layer-security (TLS)
we are migrating all endpoints used by connectors, drivers, SQL API clients and all PrivateLink Endpoints
to a new load balancing stack. A final step in this migration moves TLS session termination from Amazon Elastic
Load Balancers to Snowflake-managed Envoy proxies.

As a result, Snowflake is changing which TLS Certificate Authority (CA) signs the certificates
used to terminate TLS connections to its API endpoints from Amazon Trust Services to Digicert.

> **Note:**
>
> Digicert is already used for Snowflake’s Azure & GCP regions.

Since Digicert CA certificates are present in the default trust stores of all major operating systems, browsers
and client environments, and allowlisting egress to OCSP responders is a rare configuration, this migration will be
transparent and **require no changes for the majority of Snowflake customers**.

For the small fraction of customers who allowlist network egress or customize their CA trust stores to exclude Digicert, configuration updates may be required:

1. An update to operating system or application level trust stores to include the Digicert CA root certificate,
   or intermediates (applies to PrivateLink and non-PrivateLink connectivity).
2. An update to client firewalls and egress proxies to allow requests to the `ocsp.digicert.com` OCSP responder endpoint (applies only to non-PrivateLink connectivity).

## Validation

### CA Trust Store

Your Operating System, Browser or Application level TLS Certificate Authority trust store must contain the certificate
for Digicert Global Root G2, serial `03:3A:F1:E6:A7:11:A9:A0:BB:28:64:B1:1D:09:FA:E5`.

Operating system trust stores are implemented by the OS provider, and all recently patched operating systems
contain the Digicert Global Root G2 certification in their default trust stores. Please reach out to your OS vendor
for additional assistance.

For more information see the following:

* [Windows](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/install/certificate-stores?source=recommendations)
* [macOS](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT209143)
* [RedHat Linux](https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/configure-ca-trust-list)
* [Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/security-trust-store)

If you access Snowflake from a Java application with a custom trust store, you can validate that Digicert Global Root G2 appears in the output of:

```bash
keytool -list -keystore <path_to_keystore_file>
```

### OCSP Allowlist

> **Note:**
>
> This BCR does not require any OCSP allowlist changes for customers using Snowflake drivers to access AWS PrivateLink endpoints.

Non-privatelink customers should validate that their clients have outbound network connectivity to `ocsp.digicert.com` on port `80`. Note the `curl` url must use the `http` protocol and not `https`. Use of `https` will result in a TLS error.

```bash
curl -I 'http://ocsp.digicert.com'
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
...
```

For general instructions on Firewall allowlist requirements and validation using the SnowCD tool, see [SYSTEM$ALLOWLIST](../../../sql-reference/functions/system_allowlist.md).

### Privatelink Early Adopter Opt-In Validation

Privatelink customers who have opted in to the early adopter program have several options to validate:

1. Use Snowsight with private connectivity. For additional details see the
   [private connectivity instructions](../../../user-guide/ui-snowsight-gs.md). If you are able to connect to Snowsight,
   you have the correct configuration for Digicert CA update.
2. Use any Snowflake driver with a privatelink URL. For additional details see the
   [Snowflake driver with private link instructions](../../../user-guide/admin-security-privatelink.md). If you are able to run queries,
   you have the correct configuration for Digicert CA update.

If you have opted an account in for Privatelink testing, you can run the following commands to confirm that the account has been migrated to Digicert CA:

```bash
curl -v 'https://<privatelink hostname>/console'
...
Server certificate:
...
issuer: C=US; O=DigiCert Inc; CN=DigiCert Global G2 TLS RSA SHA256 2020 CA1
...
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
...
```

In the response, you should see a server certificate section with the Digicert Global G2 included. If you do, your account is currently on Digicert CA.
In the server certificate section, if you see Amazon as the issuer, your account is still on ACM certificates.

Alternatively, you can run the following command:

```bash
openssl s_client -connect <privatelink hostname>:443 -showcerts
...
Certificate chain:
...
issuer: C=US; O=DigiCert Inc; CN=DigiCert Global G2 TLS RSA SHA256 2020 CA1
...
Verification: OK
...
```

If you see the Digicert G2 cert in the chain, your account is currently on Digicert CA.
If you see Amazon certificates in the chain, your account is still on ACM certificates.

> **Note:**
>
> Due to some limitations with our NLB infrastructure, we are unable to support the use of underscores in the PrivateLink hostname. If you are still seeing Amazon certificates during validation, please try replacing the underscores with hyphens.
> This issue only affect early opt-in testing (getting the Digicert certificate during the early opt-in phase). Once the migration completes, you will be able to continue using underscores in hostnames.

## Timeline

> **Important:**
>
> This BCR is an [Unbundled Change](unbundled-behavior-changes.md). This infrastructure update will be
> executed by Snowflake on the timeline below, and is not coupled to the Snowflake release cycle or
> [Behavior Change Management](../managing-behavior-change-releases.md) tooling. There is no self-service mechanism to
> opt in or opt out of this change. For validation and testing, please reach out to the support team to opt in individual accounts for non-PrivateLink connectivity testing.
> For PrivateLink validation, Snowflake will provide support for account level early adopter opt-in.

For non-PrivateLink traffic, this change has been applied to all AWS regions in January 2025 with some exceptions. We will gradually remove these exceptions starting in July 2025.
For PrivateLink traffic, we are offering early adopter opt-in testing starting on June 23rd 2025. We will give everyone 2 months for testing and validation. Deployment wide changes will be rolled out across all AWS regions starting in September 2025.

Ref: 1657
