# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_06/bcr-1656.md

# SHOW SERVICES and DESCRIBE SERVICE commands: New format for the DNS name of a service

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_06 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_06_bundle.md).

The [SHOW SERVICES](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-services.md) and [DESCRIBE SERVICE](../../../sql-reference/sql/desc-service.md) commands behave as follows:

Before the change:
:   The `dns_name` column in the output of these commands contains the Snowflake-assigned DNS name of a service in the following format:

    `service-name.schema-name.db-name.snowflakecomputing.internal`

After the change:
:   The format of the DNS name in the column has changed to:

    `service-name.unique-id.svc.spcs.internal`

    The major changes in the format are:

    * `unique-id` replaces the `schema-name.db-name` and is a 4-8 character long alphanumeric identifier that is unique
      to a particular instance of a database schema.

      To find the unique ID for a schema, call the SYSTEM$GET_SERVICE_DNS_DOMAIN function. For example:

      ```sqlexample
      SELECT SYSTEM$GET_SERVICE_DNS_DOMAIN('mydb.myschema');
      ```

      Note the following:

      + If you rename a schema, the identifier remains unchanged.
      + If you drop and recreate a schema with the same name, the identifier will change.
    * `snowflakecomputing` is replaced by `svc.spcs` to reduce the verbosity of the fully qualified DNS name of the service.

Note the following:

* This is a change in the behavior of the [CREATE SERVICE](../../../sql-reference/sql/create-service.md) command. When a service is created, Snowflake assigns the DNS name to a service.

  However, the effects of this behavior change are visible when you use the [SHOW SERVICES](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-services.md) and [DESCRIBE SERVICE](../../../sql-reference/sql/desc-service.md) commands, which include the DNS name in the output.
* For services deployed after the 2024_06 bundle is enabled, the old style DNS names will continue to work for some time. Snowflake recommends that you update your code to use the new DNS format.

Ref: 1656
