# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/un-bundled/bcr-2193.md

# GCP PSC propagated connection limit set to 0

> **Note:**
>
> This change is planned for February 2026.

Propagated connections to the Google Cloud Private Service Connect (GC PSC) network allow customers to access the
Snowflake service from multiple Google projects through a single authorized project. Unlimited propagated connections
can undermine the per-account and per-project budgeting, and operational predictability of your Snowflake account.
Newly propagated connections, if left unlimited, can exhaust service-attachment limits and risk outage or necessitate the
denial of legitimate direct connections.

Disabling newly propagated connections in the Snowflake PSC service attachment configuration prevents further uncontrolled
growth while leaving existing propagated connections intact. This solution prevents immediate customer disruption. For more
information about how Google reconciles propagated connections, see
[About propagated connections](https://cloud.google.com/vpc/docs/about-propagated-connections#connection-reconciliation)
in the Google Cloud documentation.

Snowflake service connections to the GC PSC network behave as follows:

Before the change:
:   Snowflake enforced no limit on propagated connections in the GCP Inbound Privatelink PSC service attachment configuration.

After the change:
:   Snowflake sets a limit of 0 for newly propagated connections in the GCP Inbound Privatelink PSC service attachment
    configuration. Existing propagated connections remain. Only newly propagated connections are denied.

This change affects Snowflake accounts that use Google Cloud Network Connectivity Center hub-and-spoke or similar
topologies to reach Snowflake via propagated connections.

No customer action is required due to this change.

Ref: 2193
