# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_05/bcr-1196.md

# SHOW TAGS: Shared Tags Require the READ Privilege on the Tag

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_05 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_05_bundle.md).

The behavior of the SHOW TAGS command with respect to data sharing is as follows:

Previously:
:   If a data sharing provider shares a schema that stores tags, the consumer can view all of the shared tags using a SHOW TAGS command
    provided that the role that executes the SHOW TAGS command has the required privileges to access the shared schema.

Currently:
:   As a consumer, to use the SHOW TAGS command to view shared tags, you must use a role that is granted the READ privilege on each tag. The
    READ privilege for a tag is new and is only applicable in a data sharing context.

    The provider chooses how to grant the READ privilege on the tag to the share:

    * Grant the READ privilege on each tag to the share directly.

      ```sqlexample
      GRANT READ ON TAG mytag TO SHARE myshare;
      ```
    * Grant the READ privilege on the tag to a database role and grant the database role to the share.

      ```sqlexample
      GRANT READ ON TAG mytag TO DATABASE ROLE mydb.dbrole;
      GRANT DATABASE ROLE mydb.dbrole TO SHARE myshare;
      ```

    The consumer:

    * Creates a database from the share and grants privileges on the share to account roles (no changes).
    * Grants the database role to an account role (if applicable, no changes).
    * Uses SQL to execute the SHOW TAGS command.

    To determine whether you have tags that are affected by the pending behavior, use these commands:

    ```sqlexample
    SHOW TAGS IN shared_database;
    SHOW TAGS IN shared_schema;
    ```

Ref: 1196
