# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_06/bcr-1240.md

# GRANTS_TO_ROLES View: New Column in the Output and New Values for Existing Columns

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_06 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_06_bundle.md).

The Account Usage GRANTS_TO_ROLES view in the shared SNOWFLAKE database behaves as follows:

Previously:
:   The output from a query on the GRANTS_TO_ROLES view does not include the OBJECT_INSTANCE column.

    Additionally, the following columns do not support the listed values:

    * The GRANTED_ON column does not support INSTANCE_ROLE as a possible value.
    * The TABLE_CATALOG column does not support the database that stores the instance of a class.
    * The TABLE_SCHEMA column does not support the schema that stores the instance of the class.

Currently:
:   The output from a query on the GRANTS_TO_ROLES view includes the OBJECT_INSTANCE column as the last ordinal column in the output.

    | Column | Data type | Description |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    | OBJECT_INSTANCE | STRING | The fully-qualified name of the object that contains the instance role for a particular class in the format database.schema.class. |

    Additionally, the following columns support the listed values:

    * The GRANTED_ON column supports INSTANCE_ROLE as a possible value to indicate the role associated with a particular class.
    * The TABLE_CATALOG column supports the database that stores the instance of a class.
    * The TABLE_SCHEMA column supports the schema that stores the instance of the class.

    For details about classes, instances, and the associated roles, see [Snowflake classes](../../../sql-reference/snowflake-db-classes.md).

Ref: 1240
