# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_01/bcr-906.md

# Integrations: Read-only Secondary Integrations Enforced

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_01 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_01_bundle.md).

A replication or failover group can include integrations by adding the INTEGRATIONS type to its OBJECT_TYPES list and specifying the
integration type in the ALLOWED_INTEGRATION_TYPES list. Object types that are included in a replication or failover group are read-only
in target accounts. For example, if the USERS type is included, users cannot be created, modified, or deleted in a target account.

This behavior is now enforced for integration types included in replication or failover groups as follows:

Previously:
:   Integration types that were replicated from a source account to a target account in a replication or failover group could
    be modified in the target account.

    For example, if INTEGRATIONS was included in the OBJECT_TYPES list for a replication or failover group, and API INTEGRATIONS was
    included in the ALLOWED_INTEGRATION_TYPES list, API integrations could be created, modified, or deleted in target accounts.

Currently:
:   Integration types that are replicated from a source account to a target account in a replication or failover group are now
    read-only in the target account.

    For example, if INTEGRATIONS is included in the OBJECT_TYPES list for a replication or failover group, and API INTEGRATIONS is included
    in the ALLOWED_INTEGRATION_TYPES list, API integrations are read-only in target accounts. Consequently, API integrations cannot be
    created, modified, or deleted in target accounts.

Ref: 906
