# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2023_05/bcr-1178.md

# Materialized Views: Failed Refresh Invalidates a Materialized View

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2023_05 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2023_05_bundle.md).

Materialized views are updated automatically on a regular basis by a background process.

Currently, if the refresh of a materialized view fails, the data for the materialized view is not updated, and the background
process continues to attempt to refresh the materialized view periodically.

If the failure is due to a problem that will continue to occur (e.g. a division by zero error that is caused by the materialized
view definition or the data), the background process will continually fail to refresh the materialized view, and the data for the
materialized view will not be updated.

In the current release, specific types of errors during the refresh process invalidate the materialized view. In addition:

* When you query the materialized view, the output will include the reason for the invalidation.
* The output of the [SHOW MATERIALIZED VIEWS](../../../sql-reference/sql/show-materialized-views.md) command will include the reason why the materialized view
  was invalidated.

Using the information from the output of these commands, address the problem with the materialized view, and execute the
[ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW … RESUME](../../../sql-reference/sql/alter-materialized-view.md) command to resume the materialized view.

In summary, the process of refreshing and querying the materialized view changed as described below:

Previously:
:   The background process fails to refresh the materialized view.

    Although the data in the materialized view is out of date, the output from querying the materialized view does not indicate
    that the data is stale.

    When you execute the SHOW MATERIALIZED VIEWS command, the refreshed_on column indicates that the data is out of date, but the
    output does not include a reason for this.

Currently:
:   The background process invalidates the materialized view.

    Querying the materialized view results in an error that indicates why the refresh process failed to update the materialized
    view. For example:

    ```sqlexample
    SELECT * FROM my_mv;
    ```

    ```output
    002037 (42601): SQL compilation error:
      Failure during expansion of view 'MY_MV':
        SQL compilation error: Materialized View MY_MV is invalid.
        Invalidation reason: Division by zero
    ```

    When you execute the SHOW MATERIALIZED VIEWS command, the `invalid` column indicates that the materialized view is invalid,
    and the `invalid_reason` column contains the reason for the invalidation. For example:

    ```sqlexample
    SHOW MATERIALIZED VIEWS;
    ```

    ```output
    ...  +---------+------------------+ ...
    ...  | invalid | invalid_reason   | ...
    ...  +---------+------------------+ ...
    ...  | true    | Division by zero | ...
    ...  +---------+------------------+ ...
    ```

For example, suppose that you execute the following statements to create a materialized view:

```sqlexample
CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE my_base_table (a INT, b INT, c VARCHAR(16));
```

```sqlexample
INSERT INTO my_base_table VALUES (1, 1, 'valid data');
```

```sqlexample
CREATE OR REPLACE MATERIALIZED VIEW my_mv AS SELECT a / b AS div FROM my_base_table;
```

Suppose that you insert data into the table that will cause the refresh of the materialized view to fail. For example, suppose
that you execute the following statement:

```sqlexample
INSERT INTO my_base_table VALUES (1, 0, 'invalid data');
```

When the materialized view is refreshed next, the refresh will fail with a “division by zero” error. Because the refresh fails,
the materialized view will be invalidated.

To view the reason for the invalidation, query the materialized view or execute the SHOW MATERIALIZED VIEWS command:

```sqlexample
SELECT * FROM my_mv;
```

```output
002037 (42601): SQL compilation error:
  Failure during expansion of view 'MY_MV':
    SQL compilation error: Materialized View MY_MV is invalid.
    Invalidation reason: Division by zero
```

```sqlexample
SHOW MATERIALIZED VIEWS;
```

```output
...  +---------+------------------+ ...
...  | invalid | invalid_reason   | ...
...  +---------+------------------+ ...
...  | true    | Division by zero | ...
...  +---------+------------------+ ...
```

Address the problem that caused the invalidation, and execute the ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW … RESUME command to resume the
materialized view:

```sqlexample
ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW my_mv RESUME;
```

Ref: 1178
