# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_08/bcr-1784.md

# Multi-factor authentication enrollment enforced by default for new Snowflake accounts

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_08 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_08_bundle.md).

When this behavior change bundle is enabled, newly created Snowflake accounts behave as follows:

Before the change:
:   No built-in authentication policy that enforces users to enroll in multi-factor authentication (MFA) on newly created Snowflake accounts.

After the change:
:   A new built-in authentication policy that enforces users to enroll in MFA in newly created Snowflake accounts if the user uses password
    authentication, and have their [TYPE](../../../sql-reference/sql/create-user.md) property set to `PERSON` or `NULL`.

    Trial accounts are exempt from the new built-in authentication policy. If a trial account converts to a paid account, the paid account has
    a built-in authentication policy that requires MFA enrollment.

    Reader accounts are exempt from the new built-in authentication policy.

## Recommendations for new accounts

When you create a new account, you assign an ACCOUNTADMIN for your account. This behavior change enforces multi-factor authentication (MFA)
enrollment on new Snowflake accounts. Depending on whether or not a human or a service uses the ACCOUNTADMIN role, you need to specify
whether you want to enforce MFA enrollment on the ACCOUNTADMIN to prevent lockouts or to secure your account.

Follow one of the sections below, depending on your setup:

* Enforce MFA enrollment on a human ACCOUNTADMIN
* Prevent MFA from being enforced on a non-human ACCOUNTADMIN
* Allow password authentication on a non-human ACCOUNTADMIN

### Enforce MFA enrollment on a human ACCOUNTADMIN

If a human directly uses the ACCOUNTADMIN role on your account, you can secure your account by enforcing the ACCOUNTADMIN to enroll in MFA
during account creation.

Execute the following SQL statement during account creation to specify that a human uses the ACCOUNTADMIN role, and is required to enroll in
MFA:

```sqlsyntax
CREATE ACCOUNT my_admin ADMIN_USER_TYPE = PERSON;
```

### Prevent MFA from being enforced on a non-human ACCOUNTADMIN

If a human does not use the ACCOUNTADMIN role on your account, you must prevent MFA enrollment from being enforced to allow the service that
is using the ACCOUNTADMIN role to run successfully. A service-type ACCOUNTADMIN cannot use passwords to authenticate, and must specify an
[ADMIN_RSA_PUBLIC_KEY](../../../sql-reference/sql/create-account.md) during account creation.

Execute the following SQL statement during account creation to specify that a service uses the ACCOUNTADMIN role, an RSA key to
authenticate, and is not required to enroll in MFA:

```sqlsyntax
CREATE ACCOUNT my_admin
  ADMIN_USER_TYPE = SERVICE
  ADMIN_RSA_PUBLIC_KEY = 'MIIBIj...';
```

### Allow password authentication on a non-human ACCOUNTADMIN

If a human does not use the ACCOUNTADMIN role on your account, you must prevent MFA enrollment from being enforced to allow the service that
is using the ACCOUNTADMIN role to run successfully. The recommended authentication method for a service-type ACCOUNTADMIN is
[key-pair authentication](../../../user-guide/key-pair-auth.md), but if the service using the ACCOUNTADMIN ROLE does not support key-pair
authentication, then you can specify that a legacy service uses the ACCOUNTADMIN role.

A legacy service ACCOUNTADMIN cannot log in to Snowsight, and you cannot set the `FIRST_NAME` or `LAST_NAME`
parameters.

Execute the following SQL statement during account creation to specify that a legacy service uses the ACCOUNTADMIN role, a password to
authenticate, and is not required to enroll in MFA:

```sqlexample
CREATE ACCOUNT my_admin
  ADMIN_USER_TYPE = LEGACY_SERVICE
  ADMIN_PASSWORD = 'password';
```

> **Note:**
>
> The `LEGACY_SERVICE` type is a temporary solution. Snowflake highly recommends you set up key-pair authentication.

See [user types](../../../sql-reference/sql/create-user.md) for more information about user types and their limitations.

Ref: 1784
