# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/bcr-bundles/2024_02/bcr-1555.md

# Replication: Changes to refresh operations that fail with dangling reference errors

> **Attention:**
>
> This behavior change is in the 2024_02 bundle.
>
> For the current status of the bundle, refer to [Bundle History](../2024_02_bundle.md).

A [dangling reference](../../../user-guide/account-replication-considerations.md) occurs when an object in a replication or failover group has
an [object dependency](../../../user-guide/object-dependencies.md) on another object that is not included in the group. For example, a
materialized view `v1` in database `db1` references table `t1` in database `db2`. If `db1` is included
in replication group `rg1`, but `db2` is *not* included in the group, a dangling reference occurs because the referenced
object `t1` is not included in the group that contains the referencing object `v1`.

In some cases, a dangling reference causes the refresh operation to fail:

* Referenced [security policies](../../../user-guide/account-replication-security-integrations.md) are not included in the replication or
  failover group.
* Security policies are included in the group, but other required objects are not included in the group (for example, see
  [Replicating network policies](../../../user-guide/account-replication-security-integrations.md)).
* The referenced object for a [stream](../../../user-guide/account-replication-considerations.md) is not included in the replication or failover group.

The behavior for refresh operations that fail with dangling reference errors is as follows:

Before the change:
:   *Dangling reference error messages are not aggregated. Multiple dangling reference errors cause refresh operation failures to
      occur one after another, making it hard to address all issues at once.
    * Dangling reference error messages do not include the fully-qualified domain name of the missing referenced object.
    * A refresh operation with a dangling reference error might partially complete before failure, resulting in some objects being updated.

After the change:
:   *Dangling reference error messages are aggregated such that all cases that can cause refresh operation failures are surfaced at the
      same time.
    * Dangling reference error messages include the fully-qualified domain name of the missing referenced object.
    * Refresh operations with dangling reference errors fail before any secondary objects are updated.

Ref: 1555
