# Source: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/clients-drivers/jdbc-2022.md

# JDBC Driver release notes for 2022

This article contains the release notes for the JDBC Driver, including the following when applicable:

* Behavior changes
* New features
* Customer-facing bug fixes

Snowflake uses semantic versioning for JDBC Driver updates.

See [JDBC Driver](../../developer-guide/jdbc/jdbc.md) for documentation.

## Version 3.13.26 (December 14, 2022)

### New features and updates

* Upgraded the arrow library from version 9.0.0 to 10.0.1.
* Relocated files in `META-INF/versions` to `META-INF/versions/<version_number>/net/snowflake/client/jdbc/internal`.
* Added the getNano() and getOffset() methods to the SnowflakeTimeWithTimezone object to return the number of nanoseconds and the time zone offset, respectively.

## Version 3.13.25 (November 16, 2022)

### BCR (Behavior Change Release) change

> **Caution:**
>
> Version 3.13.25 of the Snowflake JDBC driver changes the default value of the `allowUnderscoresInHost` parameter
> to `false`. This change impacts PrivateLink customers whose account names contain underscores.
> In this situation, you must override the default value by setting `allowUnderscoresInHost` to `true`.

### New features and updates

* Set the default value of the `allowUnderscoresInHost` parameter to `false`, which converts underscores in account names to hyphens to avoid Apache `httpclient` connection errors with underscores. This behavior can be turned off by setting `allowUnderscoresInHost` to `true`.
* Updated the aws-java-sdk-bom library version from 1.11.394 to 1.12.327.
* Added the `enableReturnTimestampWithTimeZone` parameter to set whether to include the timezone in a timestamp.
* Added log warnings for each of the error return paths while parsing a `SnowflakeConnectString`.
* Added commas to the `SnowflakeDatabaseMetaData.getColumn()` arguments to improve readability.
* Added support for stored procedures.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue related to using the GET command when `GCS_USE_DOWNSCOPED_CREDENTIAL` is true.
* Fixed an issue related to returning result types when the session handle is `NULL`.

## Version 3.13.24 (October 28, 2022)

### BCR (Behavior Change Release) change

> **Caution:**
>
> Version 3.13.24 of the Snowflake JDBC driver changes the return values for the `Statement.getMoreResults()`
> and `Statement.getupdateCount()`, as described below.If your projects are affected by breaking changes
> related to these functions, Snowflake recommends that you do not install this version into a production
> environment before testing.

### New features and updates

* Upgraded the following libraries:

  * arrow from version 8.0.0 to 9.0.0
  * jacksondatabind from version 2.13.2.2 to 2.13.4.2
  * google-cloud-storage from version 2.5.0 to 2.6.2
* The `Statement.getMoreResults()` function now returns TRUE when more statements are available to iterate
  through in a multi-statement query.
* The `Statement.getupdateCount()` function now returns 0 instead of -1 for non-DML queries.

## Version 3.13.23 (September 30, 2022)

### New features and updates

* Enabled the parallelism parameter for PUT/GET commands when using Azure.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue with `NoClassDefFoundError` in Google libraries in the FIPs driver.
* Fixed error that occurred when getting procedures with a reader account.

## Version 3.13.22 (August 23, 2022)

### New features and updates

* Updated the tika-core library to version 2.4.1.
* Added support for the new Okta OIE (Okta Identity Engine).

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where `getColumnClassName()` threw an exception when the column type is `timestamp_tz`.
* Fixed an issue where calling `getSQLStateType()` throws an exception while retrieving database metadata.
* Fixed an issue where calling `executeLargeBatch()` for prepared statements might result in no rows being inserted.
* Fixed an issue where `QueryStatus` could return invalid error codes and messages.
* Fixed a null pointer exception that sometimes occurred for session-less clients.

## Version 3.13.21 (July 13, 2022)

### New features and updates

* Added the `getStreams` function to the `SnowflakeDatabaseMetaData` object to list active streams.
* Updated the prefetch memory maximum retry value to improve chunk download performance.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed a memory leak issue with the statement object in the `snowflakeConnectionV1::createResultSet` function.
* Fixed a memory leak issue with arrow result sets.
* Fixed an issue with missing data in the JDBC chunk downloader.

## Version 3.13.20 (June 23, 2022)

### New features

* Implemented fast fail functionality for 404 errors returned from Amazon S3.
* Updated the following dependency in the JDBC driver:

  * arrow version 7.0.0 to 8.0.0
* Upgraded the following Google library versions:

  * google-auth-library from 0.9.0 to 1.5.3
  * google-cloud-storage from 1.82.0 to 2.5.0
  * google api client versions 1.30.10 to 1.33.2
  * google http client versions 1.36.0 to 1.41.4

## Version 3.13.19 (May 25, 2022)

### New features

* Updated the `isValid()` function to send a heartbeat call instead of a SELECT 1 to validate the session connection.
* Added support for setting `VARBINARY byte[]` arrays in the `SnowflakePreparedStatement.setObject()` function.
* Updated the following dependencies in the JDBC driver:

  * arrow version 0.15.1 to 7.0.0
  * jackson version 2.11.0 to 2.13.2
  * bouncy version 1.64 to 1.70

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue with `TIMESTAMP_INPUT_FORMAT` for stage binding.

## Version 3.13.18 (May 18, 2022)

### New features

* Upgraded the arrow and jackson libraries.

### Bug fixes

Stopped appending `retryCount` to a scoped URL for chunk downloading.

## Version 3.13.17 (April 14, 2022)

### New features

* Added getters for the `timezone` and `ZonedDateTime` for the `SnowflakeTimestampWithTimezone` object.

### Bug fixes

* Created a patch for driver release v3.13.16 that fixes incorrect behavior for `getSchemas()` function.
* Fixed the setting of invalid JVM parameters `proxyHost` and `proxyPort`.

## Version 3.13.16 (March 17, 2022)

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where the `nonProxyHosts` parameter setting was not honored.

## Version 3.13.15 (February 21, 2022)

### Bug fixes

* Refactored the `isFileTransfer` function into the base class.
* Refactored the `FileTransferAgent` facade classes into base class
* Fixed a segmentation fault issue within Graal VM Native Image applications.
* Fixed and issue that cause the `ChunkDownloader` to hang.

## Version 3.13.14 (January 21, 2022)

### Bug fixes

* Added streaming ingest related metadata for streaming ingest billing.
* Updated BC FIPS version in the public POM.

## Version 3.13.13 (January 18, 2022)

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where the JDBC driver was not updating `stageInfo` for information related to s3RegionalURL.
* Fixed an issue with account names containing underscores.
* Fixed an issue where an empty result set was returned for schemas containing double quotes when
  calling `getTables()` or `getColumns()`.
* Fixed an issue where `getProcedureColumns()` was not working with wildcards.
