# Source: https://smartcar.com/docs/changelog/2022.md

> ## Documentation Index
> Fetch the complete documentation index at: https://smartcar.com/docs/llms.txt
> Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.

# 2022 Releases

## January 5, 2022

Smartcar is now compatible with Mercedes-Benz vehicles in the United States.

## February 23, 2022

The EV Battery and EV Charging status and control endpoints are now available for Lexus and Toyota vehicles in Canada and the United States.

## February 21, 2022

The Tire Pressure endpoint is now available for Lexus and Toyota vehicles in Canada and the United States.

## February 14, 2022

Smartcar is now compatible with Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, and RAM vehicles in Canada.

## February 2, 2022

Brand-specific endpoints are now available for Cadillac, Chevrolet, and Tesla. A full list of the available endpoints is available in the API Reference.

<CodeGroup>
  ```Node Node theme={null}
  const amperage = vehicle.request('GET', 'tesla/charge/ammeter');
  ```

  ```Python Python theme={null}
  amperage = vehicle.request("GET", "tesla/charge/ammeter")
  ```

  ```Java Java theme={null}
  SmartcarVehicleRequest request = new SmartcarVehicleRequest.Builder()
    .method("GET")
    .path("tesla/charge/ammeter")
    .build();
  VehicleResponse amperage = vehicle.request(request);
  ```

  ```Ruby Ruby theme={null}
  amperage = vehicle.request("GET", "tesla/charge/ammeter")
  ```
</CodeGroup>

## March 7, 2022

Smartcar is now compatible with MINI vehicles in Canada, the United States, and our supported European countries.

## April 13, 2022

Smartcar's webhooks now have beta support for sending events in response to events that are generated by the vehicle itself. The initial release supports the following events on Ford, Tesla, and Toyota vehicles in Canada, the United States, and our supported European countries:

* `CHARGING_STARTED`
* `CHARGING_STOPPED`
* `CHARGING_COMPLETED`
  Webhook events sent in response to vehicle events can be distinguished from schedule events based on the `eventName` property of the POST body. For example, the POST body for event based webhooks will have the following structure:

```json  theme={null}
{
  "version": "2.0",
  "webhookId": "uuid",
  "eventName": "eventBased",
  "mode": "test|live",
  "payload": {
    "eventId": "uuid",
    "vehicleId": "uuid",
    "eventType": "CHARGING_STARTED|CHARGING_STOPPED|CHARGING_COMPLETED",
    "eventTime": "ISO8601 Datetime"
  }
}
```

## May 9, 2022

Smartcar is now compatible with Kia vehicles in our supported European countries.

## May 5, 2022

The API now returns more detailed errors for the following:

`UPSTREAM:RATE_LIMIT` - a request fails due to a vehicle rate limit.
`VEHICLE_STATE:NOT_CHARGING` - a vehicle is not charging (only applies to endpoints that return details about a specific charging session e.g. Charging Completion Time).

## June 29, 2022

Smartcar is now compatible with Peugeot and Opel vehicles in our supported European countries.

## June 22, 2022

The Tire Pressure endpoint is now available for BMW, MINI, and Tesla vehicles in Canada, the United States, and our supported European countries.

## June 15, 2022

The API now returns a more detailed VEHICLE\_STATE error whenever a charge request fails due to charger issues or charging schedules. Click the following link to learn more:

VEHICLE\_STATE:CHARGE\_FAULT

## June 8, 2022

Smartcar is now compatible with Nissan vehicles in our supported European countries.

## July 20, 2022

Smartcar is now compatible with Citroën, DS, and Vauxhall vehicles in our supported European countries.

## July 6, 2022

The following brand-specific endpoints are now available for Tesla vehicles in Canada, the United States, and our supported European countries:

* GET `/tesla/compass`
* GET `/tesla/speedometer`

## August 24, 2022

Smartcar is now compatible with Rivian vehicles in the United States.

## August 3, 2022

Smartcar is now compatible with Škoda vehicles in our supported European countries.
The EV Charging control endpoint is now available for Hyundai vehicles in the United States.
The EV Battery Capacity endpoint is now available in our supported European countries.

## September 22, 2022

The following brand-specific endpoint is now available for Tesla vehicles in Canada, the United States, and our supported European countries:

* `POST /tesla/charge/ammeter`

## November 30, 2022

Smartcar is now compatible with Kia vehicles in Canada and the United States.

## December 29, 2022

The Location endpoint is now available for Volkswagen ID series vehicles in our supported European countries.
