<!-- Source: https://github.com/siyuan-note/user-guide-en_US/blob/master/20200923234011-ieuun1p/20210808180303-6yi0dv5/20200924101225-k254i8g.sy -->

# Content Block Type

## Content Block type cheatsheet

Hover the mouse over the content block and the corresponding icon will appear on the left side of the content block. For format usage, please refer to Markdown Complete Demo.

| Icon | Type | Meta Type |
|---|---|---|
|  | Paragraph block | Leaf block |
|  | Heading block | Leaf block |
|  | Math Formula block | Leaf block |
|  | Code block | Leaf block |
|  | Table block | Leaf block |
|  | HTML block | Leaf block |
|  | Unordered List block | Container block |
|  | Ordered List block | Container block |
|  | Task list block | Container block |
|  | List Item block | Container block |
|  | Blockquote block | Container block |
|  | Super block | Container block |
|  | Document block | Container block |

## Details of content block types

Below we introduce the details of these content block types. Content block/Type

### Paragraph block

Here is a sample paragraph.

Press Enter directly after a paragraph to form a new paragraph.

### Heading block

The above is the heading block, which supports level one to six.

### Mathematical formula block

$$
a^2 + b^2 = c^2
$$

### Code block

```anM=
function hello() {}
```

### Table block

| Column 1 | Column 2 |
|---|---|
| Row One Column One | Row One Column Two |
| Row Two Column One | Row Two Column Two |

If you need to use `|` in the form, please use `\` to escape, that is, you need to enter `\|`.

### HTML block

<ruby>
你<rt>nǐ</rt>
　好<rt>　hǎo</rt>
　世<rt>　shì</rt>
　界<rt>　jiè</rt>
</ruby><br>
Hello World

Note: The code in the HTML block will not be safely filtered when using it. Please confirm the code is safe before using it to avoid cross-site scripting (XSS).

### Unordered List Block

- List item one
- List item two

The unordered list block is a type container block.

If you need to wrap a line in a list item, use <kbd>Shift Enter</kbd>.

### Ordered List Block

1. List item one
2. List item two

An ordered list block is a type container block.

### Task list block

- To do one
- To do two

The task list block is a type container block.

### List item block

The basic usage of outline notes can be realized through the list item block. The list item block is a type container block.

### Blockquote Block

> Note that it is not a content block ref, but a block quote (Blockquote).

The block reference block is a type container block.

### Super block

The super block is a type container block. It can be used to combine continuous content blocks in a document, and also to support horizontal typesetting.

### Documentation block

The entire document is a block, and the document block is a type container block.

## Content Block meta type

The content block is logically divided into a leaf block and a container block. The leaf block cannot contain other blocks, and the container block can contain other blocks:

- List block: can only contain list item blocks
- List item block: can contain any other non-document blocks
- Blockquote block: can contain any non-document blocks
- Super block: can contain any non-document blocks
- Document block: can contain any non-document blocks
