# Get started with wp-scripts

**Source:** [https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/getting-started/devenv/get-started-with-wp-scripts/](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/getting-started/devenv/get-started-with-wp-scripts/)

## In this article

Table of Contents- Quick startInstallationBasic usageThe build process with wp-scriptsEnqueuing assets

- Next stepsMaintaining code qualityRunning testsAdvanced configurations
- Additional resources

↑Back to top

The@wordpress/scriptspackage, commonly referred to aswp-scripts, is a set of configuration files and scripts that primarily aims to standardize and simplify the development process of WordPress projects that require a JavaScript build step.

A JavaScript build step refers to the process of transforming, bundling, and optimizing JavaScript source code and related assets into a format suitable for production environments. These build steps often take modern JavaScript (ESNext and JSX) and convert it to a version compatible with most browsers. They can also bundle multiple files into one, minify the code to reduce file size and perform various other tasks to optimize the code.

You will typically be working with ESNext and JSX when building for the Block Editor, and all examples in the Block Editor Handbook are written in these syntaxes. Learning how to set up a build step is essential. However, configuring the necessary tools likewebpack,Babel, andESLintcan become complex. This is wherewp-scriptscomes in.

Here are a few things thatwp-scriptscan do:

- Compilation:Converts modern JavaScript (ESNext and JSX) into code compatible with most browsers, using Babel.
- Bundling:Uses webpack to combine multiple JavaScript files into a single bundle for better performance.
- Code Linting:Provides configurations for ESLint to help ensure code quality and conformity to coding standards.
- Code Formatting:Incorporates Prettier for automated code styling to maintain consistent code formatting across projects.
- Sass Compilation:Converts Sass (.scss or .sass) files to standard CSS.
- Code Minification:Reduces the size of the JavaScript code for production to ensure faster page loads.

The package abstracts away much of the initial setup, configuration, and boilerplate code associated with JavaScript development for modern WordPress. You can then focus on building blocks and Block Editor extensions.

## Quick start

```text
If you use [@wordpress/create-block](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/getting-started/devenv/get-started-with-create-block/) package to scaffold the structure of files needed to create and register a block, you’ll also get a modern JavaScript build setup (using `wp-scripts`) with no configuration required, so you don’t need to worry about installing `wp-scripts` or enqueuing assets. Refer to [Get started withcreate-block](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/getting-started/devenv/get-started-with-create-block/) for more details.

```text

### Installation

Ensure you have Node.js andnpminstalled on your computer. Review theNode.js development environmentguide if not.

Then, create a project folder and ensure it contains apackage.jsonfile, abuildfolder, and ansrcfolder. Thesrcfolder should also include anindex.jsfile.

If you have not created apackage.jsonfile before, navigate to the project folder in the terminal and run thenpm initcommand. An interactive prompt will walk you through the steps. Configure as you like, but when it asks for the “entry point”, enterbuild/index.js.

Of course, there are many ways to set up a project usingwp-scripts, but this is the recommended approach used throughout the Block Editor Handbook.

Finally, install thewp-scriptspackage as a development dependency by running the command:

```bash

npm install @wordpress/scripts --save-dev

```text

Once the installation is complete, your project folder should look like this:

```text

example-project-folder/
├── build/
├── node_modules/ (autogenerated)
├── src/
│   └── index.js
├── package-lock.json (autogenerated)
└── package.json

```text

### Basic usage

Once installed, you can run the predefined scripts provided withwp-scriptsby referencing them in the scripts section of yourpackage.jsonfile. Here’s an example:

```json

{
    "scripts": {
        "start": "wp-scripts start",
        "build": "wp-scripts build"
    }
}

```php

These scripts can then be run using the commandnpm run {script name}.

### The build process with wp-scripts

The two scripts you will use most often arestartandbuildsince they handle the build step. See thepackage documentationfor all options.

When working on your project, use thenpm run startcommand. This will start a development server and automatically rebuild the project whenever any change is detected. Note that the compiled code inbuild/index.jswill not be optimized.

When you are ready to deploy your project, use thenpm run buildcommand. This optimizes your code and makes it production-ready.

After the build finishes, you will see the compiled JavaScript file created atbuild/index.js.

Abuild/index.asset.phpfile will also be created in the build process, which contains an array of dependencies and a version number (for cache busting). Please, note that to register a block without thiswp-scriptsbuild process you’ll need to manually create*.asset.phpdependencies files (seeexample).

### Enqueuing assets

If you register a block viaregister_block_typethe scripts defined inblock.jsonwill be automatically enqueued (seeexample)

To manually enqueue files in the editor, in any other context, you can refer to theEnqueueing assets in the Editorguide for more information, but here’s a typical implementation.

```javascript

/**

 * Enqueue Editor assets.

 */
function example_project_enqueue_editor_assets() {
    $asset_file = include( plugin_dir_path( __FILE__ ) . 'build/index.asset.php');

```text

wp_enqueue_script(
    'example-editor-scripts',
    plugins_url( 'build/index.js', __FILE__ ),
    $asset_file['dependencies'],
    $asset_file['version']
);

```php

}
add_action( 'enqueue_block_editor_assets', 'example_project_enqueue_editor_assets' );

```text

Here’san exampleof manually enqueuing files in the editor.

## Next steps

Whilestartandbuildwill be the two most used scripts, several other useful tools come withwp-scriptsthat are worth exploring. Here’s a look at a few.

### Maintaining code quality

To help developers improve the quality of their code,wp-scriptscomes pre-configured with tools like ESLint and Prettier. ESLint ensures your JavaScript adheres to best practices and theWordPress coding standards, while Prettier automatically formats your code. The available scripts include:

```json

{
    "scripts": {
        "format": "wp-scripts format",
        "lint:css": "wp-scripts lint-style",
        "lint:js": "wp-scripts lint-js",
    }
}

```javascript

Regularly linting and formatting your code ensures it’s functional, clear, and maintainable for yourself and other developers.

### Running tests

Beyond just writing code, verifying its functionality is crucial.wp-scriptsincludesJest, a JavaScript testing framework, and both end-to-end and unit testing scripts:

```json

{
    "scripts": {
        "test:e2e": "wp-scripts test-e2e",
        "test:unit": "wp-scripts test-unit-js"
    }
}

```javascript

Unit tests validate individual units of code, such as functions, ensuring they work as intended, while end-to-end (E2E) tests evaluate the entire project by simulating real-world user scenarios to ensure all parts of the system work seamlessly together.

### Advanced configurations

Whilewp-scriptsprovides a solid default configuration, there might be cases where you need more specialized setups. The good news iswp-scriptsis highly adaptable. For example, you can extend and override the default webpack configuration, allowing you to add loaders and plugins or modify almost any part of the build process. This flexibility ensures that as your project grows or its requirements change,wp-scriptscan be tailored to your evolving needs.

See thewp-scriptspackage documentationfor all configuration options.

## Additional resources

- @wordpress/scripts(Official documentation)
- How webpack and WordPress packages interact(WordPress Developer Blog)

First published

October 18, 2023

Last updated

April 17, 2024

Edit article

Improve it on GitHub: Get started with wp-scripts

[PreviousGet started with create-blockPrevious: Get started with create-block](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/getting-started/devenv/get-started-with-create-block/)
[NextQuick Start GuideNext: Quick Start Guide](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/getting-started/quick-start-guide/)
