# Source: https://bryntum.com/products/gantt/docs-llm/guide/Gantt/advanced/a11y.md

# Using accessibility in Bryntum widgets

## Accessibility Policy

We strive to make our web components as accessible and usable as possible. We do this by following Section 508 and
the [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.1)](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/) produced by the World Wide Web
Consortium (W3C, the web's governing body).

### Key commitments

* Images have alternative text (so if you can't see the image you can still read the text).
* An Accessible theme in which color contrast between the foreground and background is sufficiently
 strong. (Available Q3 2025)
* Text can be resized according to user preference using browser zoom commands.
* Headings are correctly used (they're not just ordinary text made to look big and bold).
* Links make sense by themselves (e.g. no links that just say "Click here" or "More...").
* Tables or ARIA-compliant Grids are used for laying out tabular information and have proper headings
 and summaries.
* All operations implemented as mouse gestures have a keyboard based equivalent.
* All input fields have a `label` or `aria-label` which describes them.
* All buttons have a `label` or `aria-label` which describes them.
* Tooltip content is announced on focus.

### Feedback

If you have a problem with the accessibility of our web components, [please contact](https://bryntum.com/contact)
us and provide the URL (web address) of the material you tried to access, the problem you experienced, and your
contact information. We'll attempt to provide the information you're seeking.

## Example pages

The example apps all have a "Skip to content" link as the first tabbable element in the page, which, if focused by
<kbd>Tab</kbd> and activated, jumps past the example's chrome and into the example application.

## Widget configs

### `ariaElement`

The name of a named element, which is the main ARIA element that acquires the `role` attribute and the `aria-label`
attribute.

This is normally the `Widget`'s encapsulating `element`. For input fields, it is the `input` element.

`Widget` subclasses, which have custom DOM can set this.

### `role`

The ARIA role to assign to the `ariaElement`.

System-supplied widgets know their own roles, but this can be overridden by configuration, or in subclasses.

### `ariaLabel`

A *localizable* string key, which, when resolved from the locale, is applied to the `aria-label`
attribute of the `Widget`'s `ariaElement`.

Note that this is re-evaluated and updated on focusIn and focusOut. This is because locale files can specify a
*function* to yield the value. The widget itself is passed as the `templateData`, so the result can reflect widget
state.

### `ariaDescription`

A *localizable* string key, which, when resolved from the locale, is applied to an inner element, which is
referenced by the `aria-describedby` attribute of the `Widget`'s `ariaElement`

Note that this is re-evaluated and updated on focusIn and focusOut. This is because locale files can specify a
*function* to yield the value. The widget itself is passed as the `templateData`, so the result can reflect widget
state.

If not specified, the `tooltip` text value is used as the `ariaDescription`.

### `ariaHasPopup`

An indicator that the widget offers a popup containing extra functionality, which is set to the `role` of that popup.

System supplied widgets such as `Button`, `MenuItem` and the `PickerField`s (`Combo`, `DateField` and `TimeField`) will
automatically set this to the `role` of their popups.

## VoiceOver utility on OSX

In the Settings tab, the "Synchronize keyboard focus and VoiceOver cursor" must be checked.

## Keyboard-accessible widgets

Most low level widgets such as `TextField`, `NumberField` and `Checkbox` are native HTML input fields, which are
accessible natively. The <kbd>Tab</kbd> key moves between them.

When any `Field` is configured `clearable : true`, <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Backspace</kbd> may be used to invoke the
trigger and clear the field.

Certain more complex input widgets have special key handling.

`NumberField`s respond to <kbd>↓</kbd> and <kbd>↑</kbd> by decrementing or incrementing by their configured `step` value
just as would happen by clicking the spin down or up triggers.

### Combo

The `Combo` widget is fully keyboard accessible. Typing into the field filters the store and shows the dropdown
`listbox` as soon as the configured `minChars` have been typed.

Pressing <kbd>↓</kbd> shows the `listbox` unfiltered.

When the `listbox` is visible, <kbd>↑</kbd> and <kbd>↓</kbd> may be used to navigate between the items,
<kbd>Enter</kbd> selects the focused item.

### Button

The `Button` widget is keyboard accessible. If it has a configured `menu`, then <kbd>Enter</kbd> will activate the
menu. <kbd>Escape</kbd> will hide the menu.

### Menu

The `Menu` widget is keyboard accessible. <kbd>↓</kbd> moves focus down the menu.

`MenuItem`s with enabled menus will open their child menu upon focus. <kbd>→</kbd> enters the child menu.

<kbd>Enter</kbd> activates normal `MenuItem`s.

### DateField

The `DateField` widget is keyboard accessible.

<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↓</kbd> activates the "nudge backwards" trigger. <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↑</kbd> activates the "
nudge forwards" trigger.

Pressing <kbd>↓</kbd> shows a popup date picker, which is an aria Grid in which each cell represents a date.

As with all grids, <kbd>↑</kbd>, <kbd>↓</kbd>, <kbd>←</kbd> and <kbd>→</kbd> navigate as expected with wrapping to the
previous month at the edges.

When focused on a date cell, <kbd>Enter</kbd> selects that date and sets the value of the date field.

<kbd>Tab</kbd> and <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Tab</kbd> navigate to the month and year change buttons in the header and then
back into the cells.

As with all popups, <kbd>Escape</kbd> closes the date picker. Focus reverts to the `DateField`.

### TimeField

<kbd>↓</kbd> and <kbd>↑</kbd> decrement and increment the hours or minutes subfield currently focused.

Pressing <kbd>Space</kbd> shows a popup time picker, which allows the hours, minutes and AM/PM to be chosen
separately.

### Popup

The `Popup` widget is keyboard accessible in that <kbd>Tab</kbd> functions normally but is trapped within the
popup.

If an <kbd>Escape</kbd> keyboard event bubbles from a descendant widget, this closes the popup and reverts focus to
the element that was focused before the popup was shown.

This is the case for all widgets, which are transient and contain focus when they hide. The hide operation actively
pushes focus back to the element from which focus entered the widget.

### TabPanel

The `TabPanel` widget is keyboard accessible. The tabs in the tab list are `Button`s and are tabbable.

When the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key is used to navigate into the tab list, the currently active tab is focused. <kbd>Tab</kbd>
moves between them as usual.

Activate the focused tab using the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key. The newly activated child of the `TabPanel` is focused.

### Grids (This includes Schedulers, Gantts, and the Agenda view of Calendar)

Grids are fully accessible, according to WAI-ARIA guidelines.

The column headers are treated as Grid cells and constitute row 1 of the Grid.

<kbd>↑</kbd>, <kbd>↓</kbd>, <kbd>←</kbd> and <kbd>→</kbd> keys work as expected to move focus to adjacent cells.
When navigation moves onto an input field (like a filter field of cell editor) which is inside a cell,
<kbd>Escape</kbd> moves focus outwards to the cell element ready for onward navigation. <kbd>Tab</kbd> /
<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Tab</kbd> may be used to move to focusable content in the next/previous cell because arrow
keys are used for input editing.

<kbd>Space</kbd> when focused on a cell invokes the defined context menu if enabled. So for a column header,
the `HeaderMenu` feature will activate. From a data cell, the `CellMenu` feature will activate.

The `HeaderMenu` is the way to access sorting, grouping, filtering and moving columns between sub
grids in a keyboard-accessible manner.

<kbd>Page Up</kbd> moves up in the current column by one page.

<kbd>Page Down</kbd> moves down in the current column by one page.

<kbd>Home</kbd> moves to the first cell in a row.

<kbd>End</kbd> moves to the last cell in a row.

<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Home</kbd> moves to the first cell (The first column header).

<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>End</kbd> moves to the last cell.

If a cell has focusable content, navigating to that cell focuses the first focusable element in the cell which may then
be used as normal. The <kbd>Tab</kbd> key may be used inside the cell. Arrow and other grid navigation keys work as
usual and navigate away from the cell.

<kbd>Enter</kbd> invokes the defined cell editor for the cell (if any, and if the `CellEdit` feature is enabled).

When focused inside a cell, <kbd>Escape</kbd> moves focus back up to the cell.

#### Tree feature

When a Gantt is configured to represent data as a tree, the following keystrokes manipulate the nodes:

<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>←</kbd> when focused on the tree column collapses the node.

<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>→</kbd> when focused on the tree column expands the node.

#### Filter feature

When focused on a filterable column header, typing <kbd>F</kbd> will show and focus the filter field.

#### Search feature

The Search feature has the following default keyboard shortcuts:

* <kbd>F3</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>G</kbd> - Move focus to next search hit
* <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>F3</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>G</kbd> - Move focus to previous search hit
