# Source: https://docs.klarna.com/resources/marketing-tools/partner-marketing-legal-guidelines/united-kingdom.md

# Partner marketing legal guidelines - United Kingdom

## Ensure your UK marketing complies with Klarna’s legal guidelines by using clear, responsible messaging, adhering to FRN and T&Cs, and avoiding language that could promote irresponsible borrowing.

<em>Important: Update to Klarna’s Firm Reference Number</em>Klarna Financial Services UK Ltd is now authorised by the FCA as an Electronic Money Institution (EMI) under FRN 1021834, replacing our previous FRN 987816. ​To remain compliant please ensure you update all FRN references in all consumer-facing touchpoints - including websites, social content, checkout messaging, and legal disclosures. For Klarna’s UK specific Terms and Conditions please visit: [<https: terms-and-conditions="" uk="" www.klarna.com=""></https:>](https://www.klarna.com/uk/terms-and-conditions/) **Keep it simple**. Don’t lose a customer because the payment instructions were too complicated, but do make it clear what you are offering. **Stand out for the right reason.** Highlight the payment option you offer, but be sure to be clear, fair and not misleading. **Be sensitive to the situation.** Consider what is going with your customers and in the wider market as a whole. Use this knowledge to decide how you promote and market Klarna in all your channels. One message does not fit all circumstances. **Don't encourage debt.** Do not encourage shoppers to spend outside of their means. Using phrases such as *‘strapped for cash?’*, *‘don’t wait until payday’* or *‘broke AF’* are unacceptable and irresponsible. You have an obligation to ensure your customers stay financially healthy. **﻿Make sure your ads are socially responsible to consumers and society.** Offers or benefits should not be linked to credit marketing which are likely to make the credit offer attractive. ​*Klarna may review and monitor your advertising and marketing of Klarna's products and services, including through automated means, to ensure your marketing complies with applicable laws, rules, and regulations.*