# Source: https://developers.make.com/api-documentation/troubleshooting/http-status-codes.md

# HTTP status error codes

This article describes the most frequent error codes returned by the Make API. If you need help resolving common issues related to the Make API, refer to the [Troubleshooting](https://developers.make.com/api-documentation/troubleshooting/common-issues) section. If your request is incorrect, in the response, you can find the details of the error that should help you to troubleshoot. All Make API errors have the same schema. Below you can see the example of a response for the request with the incorrect parameter. This can happen, for example, when you request a resource you do not have access to:

**Example:**

```json
{
  "detail": "Access denied.",
  "message": "Permission denied",
  "code": "SC403",
}
```

## Standard HTTP error statuses

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="172"></th><th width="576"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>HTTP status</strong></td><td><strong>Explanation</strong></td></tr><tr><td><strong>400</strong><br>Bad request</td><td><p>The server could not understand the request due to invalid syntax. This could happen, for example, due to the invalid data type and prohibited data duplication. Below you can find examples of more specific error messages related to some features:</p><p><strong>Connections</strong></p><ul><li>Invalid connection type</li><li>Invalid scope</li><li>Common data must be a collection</li></ul><p><strong>Data stores and data structures</strong></p><ul><li><code>teamId</code> validation failed</li></ul><p><strong>Devices</strong></p><ul><li>Unknown identifier format</li><li>Some of the incoming messages could not be deleted because they are being processed right now</li><li>Some of the outgoing messages could not be deleted because they are being processed right now</li><li>Some of the executions could not be deleted because they are being processed right now</li></ul><p><strong>DLQs</strong></p><ul><li>Some of the executions could not be deleted because they are being processed right now</li></ul><p><strong>Hooks</strong></p><ul><li>Missing value of required parameter</li></ul><p><strong>Keys</strong></p><ul><li>Invalid input file</li><li>File is too big</li><li>File is not a valid primary key</li><li>File is not a valid certificate</li></ul><p><strong>Notifications</strong></p><ul><li>User has no organization in the zone</li></ul><p><strong>Scenarios</strong></p><ul><li><code>teamId</code> and <code>organizationId</code> cannot be used together</li><li>Missing required parameter <code>teamId</code> or <code>organizationId</code></li><li>Invalid key, not parsable to integer</li></ul><p><strong>Templates</strong></p><ul><li>Validation failed for templateUrl unknown format</li></ul><p><strong>Apps</strong></p><ul><li>Invalid response from the repository</li><li>Failed to attach to the pap installation</li><li>Failed to finish installation</li><li>App uninstallation failed</li><li>Invalid install specification</li><li>Install file of the pap is not valid</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>403</strong><br>Forbidden</td><td>You do not have access rights to the content which means that your request was unauthorized.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>404</strong><br>Not Found</td><td><p>The server cannot find the requested resource (probably it does not exist) even if the endpoint is valid. Servers may also send this response instead of 403 to hide the existence of a resource from an unauthorized client.</p><p>This code may appear, for example, when you try to get details of the nonexistent/removed scenario, team, template, user, organization or app.<br>Make API endpoints are case sensitive, you may see this error if you have used incorrect case for your endpoints. </p></td></tr><tr><td><strong>413</strong><br>Payload Too Large</td><td><p>The request entity exceeded the limits set on the server. Below you can find examples of more specific error messages related to the Apps feature:</p><p><strong>Apps</strong></p><ul><li>Failed to save image. Invalid upload</li><li>Failed to save image. Image is too big</li><li>Commit message is too big</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>424</strong><br>Failed Dependency</td><td><p>The request failed due to failure of a previous request. Below you can find examples of more specific error messages related to the Connections and Apps features:</p><p><strong>Connections</strong></p><ul><li>Connection action crashed</li><li>Connection action timed out</li></ul><p><strong>Apps</strong></p><ul><li>Failed to load manifest for app</li><li>Remote procedure crashed</li><li>Remote procedure timed out</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>429</strong><br>Too many requests</td><td>You have exceeded the rate limit of API requests for your organization. Wait for one minute for the limit period to reset. Check the <a href="../getting-started/rate-limiting">API rate limiting section</a> for more information.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>503</strong><br>Service Unavailable</td><td>A dependency is currently unavailable. This error code may appear, for example, in relation to unavailable dependencies for DLQs, scenarios or teams.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>304</strong><br>Account Does Not Exist</td><td>This error appears when the account does not exist or it was not found.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Custom Make error codes

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="177"></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>HTTP status</strong></td><td><strong>Explanation</strong></td></tr><tr><td><br><strong>IM001</strong><br>Access Denied</td><td><p>This error code indicates the lack of rights to perform specific actions. Below you can find examples of more specific error messages related to the Apps feature:</p><p><strong>Users</strong></p><ul><li>The user cannot change the password</li><li>The user cannot change the email</li></ul><p><strong>Apps</strong></p><ul><li>Cannot disapprove app</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>IM002</strong><br>Insufficient Rights</td><td>This error appears when you do not have sufficient rights to interact with the resource.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>IM003</strong><br>Storage Not Enough Space</td><td>This error appears when limit of data stores storage is exceeded.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>IM004</strong><br>Confirmation Required</td><td>This error appears when the removal process of the key in the data stores is not confirmed.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>IM005</strong><br>Invalid Input Parameters</td><td><p>This error appears when you use invalid parameters in a request. Below you can find examples of more specific error messages related to some features:</p><p><strong>Hooks</strong></p><ul><li>Invalid hook type</li></ul><p><strong>Connections</strong></p><ul><li>There is nothing to configure in this connection</li></ul><p><strong>Users</strong></p><ul><li>The user cannot be part of any organization</li></ul><p><strong>Custom functions</strong></p><ul><li>Your custom function's code has a syntax error or uses a JavaScript feature that Make doesn't support. Check the <a href="https://www.make.com/en/help/functions/custom-functions#limitations-of-custom-functions">custom functions limitations</a> in the Make Help center.</li><li>The custom function's name in the custom function's code and in the <code>name</code> field don't match.</li><li>The custom function's name is the same as a JavaScript reserved word. A custom function cannot have the same name as a JavaScript reserved word. Check the <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_reserved.asp">list of JavaScript reserved words.</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>IM011</strong><br>Entity Limit Exceeded</td><td>This error appears when you exceed the limit for password change attempts.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>IM016</strong><br>Action is not possible due to dependencies</td><td><p>This error appears when you don't fulfill requirements to execute the API call. For example:</p><p><strong>Scenario inputs</strong></p><ul><li>If you have required scenario inputs you have to set the scenario scheduling to <strong>On demand</strong>.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>IM102</strong><br>Invalid Credentials</td><td>This error appears when you use the invalid password.</td></tr></tbody></table>
