<!-- Code generated by gomarkdoc. DO NOT EDIT -->

# importer

```go
import "go/importer"
```

Package importer provides access to export data importers.

These functions, which are mostly deprecated, date from before the introduction of modules in release Go 1.11. They should no longer be relied on except for use in test cases using small programs that depend only on the standard library. For reliable module\-aware loading of type information, use the packages.Load function from golang.org/x/tools/go/packages.

## Index

- [func Default\(\) types.Importer](<#Default>)
- [func For\(compiler string, lookup Lookup\) types.Importer](<#For>)
- [func ForCompiler\(fset \*token.FileSet, compiler string, lookup Lookup\) types.Importer](<#ForCompiler>)
- [type Lookup](<#Lookup>)

<a name="Default"></a>

## func [Default](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/go/importer/importer.go#L97>)

```go
func Default() types.Importer
```

Default returns an Importer for the compiler that built the running binary. If available, the result implements \[types.ImporterFrom\].

Default may be convenient for use in the simplest of cases, but most clients should instead use [ForCompiler](<#ForCompiler>), which accepts a \[token.FileSet\] from the caller; without it, all position information derived from the Importer will be incorrect and misleading. See also the package documentation.

<a name="For"></a>

## func [For](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/go/importer/importer.go#L85>)

```go
func For(compiler string, lookup Lookup) types.Importer
```

For calls [ForCompiler](<#ForCompiler>) with a new FileSet.

Deprecated: Use [ForCompiler](<#ForCompiler>), which populates a FileSet with the positions of objects created by the importer.

<a name="ForCompiler"></a>

## func [ForCompiler](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/go/importer/importer.go#L47>)

```go
func ForCompiler(fset *token.FileSet, compiler string, lookup Lookup) types.Importer
```

ForCompiler returns an Importer for importing from installed packages for the compilers "gc" and "gccgo", or for importing directly from the source if the compiler argument is "source". In this latter case, importing may fail under circumstances where the exported API is not entirely defined in pure Go source code \(if the package API depends on cgo\-defined entities, the type checker won't have access to those\).

The lookup function is called each time the resulting importer needs to resolve an import path. In this mode the importer can only be invoked with canonical import paths \(not relative or absolute ones\); it is assumed that the translation to canonical import paths is being done by the client of the importer.

A lookup function must be provided for correct module\-aware operation. Deprecated: If lookup is nil, for backwards\-compatibility, the importer will attempt to resolve imports in the $GOPATH workspace.

<a name="Lookup"></a>

## type [Lookup](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/go/importer/importer.go#L28>)

A Lookup function returns a reader to access package data for a given import path, or an error if no matching package is found.

```go
type Lookup func(path string) (io.ReadCloser, error)
```

Generated by [gomarkdoc](<https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc>)
