<!-- Code generated by gomarkdoc. DO NOT EDIT -->

# fcgi

```go
import "net/http/fcgi"
```

Package fcgi implements the FastCGI protocol.

See https://fast-cgi.github.io/ for an unofficial mirror of the original documentation.

Currently only the responder role is supported.

## Index

- [Variables](<#variables>)
- [func ProcessEnv\(r \*http.Request\) map\[string\]string](<#ProcessEnv>)
- [func Serve\(l net.Listener, handler http.Handler\) error](<#Serve>)

## Variables

<a name="ErrConnClosed"></a>ErrConnClosed is returned by Read when a handler attempts to read the body of a request after the connection to the web server has been closed.

```go
var ErrConnClosed = errors.New("fcgi: connection to web server closed")
```

<a name="ErrRequestAborted"></a>ErrRequestAborted is returned by Read when a handler attempts to read the body of a request that has been aborted by the web server.

```go
var ErrRequestAborted = errors.New("fcgi: request aborted by web server")
```

<a name="ProcessEnv"></a>

## func [ProcessEnv](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/net/http/fcgi/child.go#L366>)

```go
func ProcessEnv(r *http.Request) map[string]string
```

ProcessEnv returns FastCGI environment variables associated with the request r for which no effort was made to be included in the request itself \- the data is hidden in the request's context. As an example, if REMOTE\_USER is set for a request, it will not be found anywhere in r, but it will be included in ProcessEnv's response \(via r's context\).

<a name="Serve"></a>

## func [Serve](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/net/http/fcgi/child.go#L339>)

```go
func Serve(l net.Listener, handler http.Handler) error
```

Serve accepts incoming FastCGI connections on the listener l, creating a new goroutine for each. The goroutine reads requests and then calls handler to reply to them. If l is nil, Serve accepts connections from os.Stdin. If handler is nil, \[http.DefaultServeMux\] is used.

Generated by [gomarkdoc](<https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc>)
