<!-- Code generated by gomarkdoc. DO NOT EDIT -->

# testing

```go
import "testing"
```

Package testing provides support for automated testing of Go packages. It is intended to be used in concert with the "go test" command, which automates execution of any function of the form

```go
func TestXxx(*testing.T)
```

where Xxx does not start with a lowercase letter. The function name serves to identify the test routine.

Within these functions, use \[T.Error\], \[T.Fail\] or related methods to signal failure.

To write a new test suite, create a file that contains the TestXxx functions as described here, and give that file a name ending in "\_test.go". The file will be excluded from regular package builds but will be included when the "go test" command is run.

The test file can be in the same package as the one being tested, or in a corresponding package with the suffix "\_test".

If the test file is in the same package, it may refer to unexported identifiers within the package, as in this example:

```go
package abs

import "testing"

func TestAbs(t *testing.T) {
    got := abs(-1)
    if got != 1 {
        t.Errorf("abs(-1) = %d; want 1", got)
    }
}
```

If the file is in a separate "\_test" package, the package being tested must be imported explicitly and only its exported identifiers may be used. This is known as "black box" testing.

```go
package abs_test

import (
	"testing"

	"path_to_pkg/abs"
)

func TestAbs(t *testing.T) {
    got := abs.Abs(-1)
    if got != 1 {
        t.Errorf("Abs(-1) = %d; want 1", got)
    }
}
```

For more detail, run [go help test](<https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/go#hdr-Test_packages>) and [go help testflag](<https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/go#hdr-Testing_flags>).

### Benchmarks

Functions of the form

```go
func BenchmarkXxx(*testing.B)
```

are considered benchmarks, and are executed by the "go test" command when its \-bench flag is provided. Benchmarks are run sequentially.

For a description of the testing flags, see [go help testflag](<https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/go#hdr-Testing_flags>).

A sample benchmark function looks like this:

```go
func BenchmarkRandInt(b *testing.B) {
    for b.Loop() {
        rand.Int()
    }
}
```

The output

```go
BenchmarkRandInt-8   	68453040	        17.8 ns/op
```

means that the body of the loop ran 68453040 times at a speed of 17.8 ns per loop.

Only the body of the loop is timed, so benchmarks may do expensive setup before calling b.Loop, which will not be counted toward the benchmark measurement:

```go
func BenchmarkBigLen(b *testing.B) {
    big := NewBig()
    for b.Loop() {
        big.Len()
    }
}
```

If a benchmark needs to test performance in a parallel setting, it may use the RunParallel helper function; such benchmarks are intended to be used with the go test \-cpu flag:

```go
func BenchmarkTemplateParallel(b *testing.B) {
    templ := template.Must(template.New("test").Parse("Hello, {{.}}!"))
    b.RunParallel(func(pb *testing.PB) {
        var buf bytes.Buffer
        for pb.Next() {
            buf.Reset()
            templ.Execute(&buf, "World")
        }
    })
}
```

A detailed specification of the benchmark results format is given in https://go.dev/design/14313-benchmark-format.

There are standard tools for working with benchmark results at [golang.org/x/perf/cmd](<https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/perf/cmd/>). In particular, [golang.org/x/perf/cmd/benchstat](<https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/perf/cmd/benchstat/>) performs statistically robust A/B comparisons.

### b.N\\\-style benchmarks

Prior to the introduction of [B.Loop](<#B.Loop>), benchmarks were written in a different style using B.N. For example:

```go
func BenchmarkRandInt(b *testing.B) {
    for range b.N {
        rand.Int()
    }
}
```

In this style of benchmark, the benchmark function must run the target code b.N times. The benchmark function is called multiple times with b.N adjusted until the benchmark function lasts long enough to be timed reliably. This also means any setup done before the loop may be run several times.

If a benchmark needs some expensive setup before running, the timer should be explicitly reset:

```go
func BenchmarkBigLen(b *testing.B) {
    big := NewBig()
    b.ResetTimer()
    for range b.N {
        big.Len()
    }
}
```

New benchmarks should prefer using [B.Loop](<#B.Loop>), which is more robust and more efficient.

### Examples

The package also runs and verifies example code. Example functions may include a concluding line comment that begins with "Output:" and is compared with the standard output of the function when the tests are run. \(The comparison ignores leading and trailing space.\) These are examples of an example:

```go
func ExampleHello() {
    fmt.Println("hello")
    // Output: hello
}

func ExampleSalutations() {
    fmt.Println("hello, and")
    fmt.Println("goodbye")
    // Output:
    // hello, and
    // goodbye
}
```

The comment prefix "Unordered output:" is like "Output:", but matches any line order:

```go
func ExamplePerm() {
    for _, value := range Perm(5) {
        fmt.Println(value)
    }
    // Unordered output: 4
    // 2
    // 1
    // 3
    // 0
}
```

Example functions without output comments are compiled but not executed.

The naming convention to declare examples for the package, a function F, a type T and method M on type T are:

```go
func Example() { ... }
func ExampleF() { ... }
func ExampleT() { ... }
func ExampleT_M() { ... }
```

Multiple example functions for a package/type/function/method may be provided by appending a distinct suffix to the name. The suffix must start with a lower\-case letter.

```go
func Example_suffix() { ... }
func ExampleF_suffix() { ... }
func ExampleT_suffix() { ... }
func ExampleT_M_suffix() { ... }
```

The entire test file is presented as the example when it contains a single example function, at least one other function, type, variable, or constant declaration, and no test or benchmark functions.

### Fuzzing

'go test' and the testing package support fuzzing, a testing technique where a function is called with randomly generated inputs to find bugs not anticipated by unit tests.

Functions of the form

```go
func FuzzXxx(*testing.F)
```

are considered fuzz tests.

For example:

```go
func FuzzHex(f *testing.F) {
  for _, seed := range [][]byte{{}, {0}, {9}, {0xa}, {0xf}, {1, 2, 3, 4}} {
    f.Add(seed)
  }
  f.Fuzz(func(t *testing.T, in []byte) {
    enc := hex.EncodeToString(in)
    out, err := hex.DecodeString(enc)
    if err != nil {
      t.Fatalf("%v: decode: %v", in, err)
    }
    if !bytes.Equal(in, out) {
      t.Fatalf("%v: not equal after round trip: %v", in, out)
    }
  })
}
```

A fuzz test maintains a seed corpus, or a set of inputs which are run by default, and can seed input generation. Seed inputs may be registered by calling [F.Add](<#F.Add>) or by storing files in the directory testdata/fuzz/\<Name\> \(where \<Name\> is the name of the fuzz test\) within the package containing the fuzz test. Seed inputs are optional, but the fuzzing engine may find bugs more efficiently when provided with a set of small seed inputs with good code coverage. These seed inputs can also serve as regression tests for bugs identified through fuzzing.

The function passed to [F.Fuzz](<#F.Fuzz>) within the fuzz test is considered the fuzz target. A fuzz target must accept a [\\\*T](<#T>) parameter, followed by one or more parameters for random inputs. The types of arguments passed to [F.Add](<#F.Add>) must be identical to the types of these parameters. The fuzz target may signal that it's found a problem the same way tests do: by calling \[T.Fail\] \(or any method that calls it like \[T.Error\] or \[T.Fatal\]\) or by panicking.

When fuzzing is enabled \(by setting the \-fuzz flag to a regular expression that matches a specific fuzz test\), the fuzz target is called with arguments generated by repeatedly making random changes to the seed inputs. On supported platforms, 'go test' compiles the test executable with fuzzing coverage instrumentation. The fuzzing engine uses that instrumentation to find and cache inputs that expand coverage, increasing the likelihood of finding bugs. If the fuzz target fails for a given input, the fuzzing engine writes the inputs that caused the failure to a file in the directory testdata/fuzz/\<Name\> within the package directory. This file later serves as a seed input. If the file can't be written at that location \(for example, because the directory is read\-only\), the fuzzing engine writes the file to the fuzz cache directory within the build cache instead.

When fuzzing is disabled, the fuzz target is called with the seed inputs registered with [F.Add](<#F.Add>) and seed inputs from testdata/fuzz/\<Name\>. In this mode, the fuzz test acts much like a regular test, with subtests started with [F.Fuzz](<#F.Fuzz>) instead of [T.Run](<#T.Run>).

See https://go.dev/doc/fuzz for documentation about fuzzing.

### Skipping

Tests or benchmarks may be skipped at run time with a call to \[T.Skip\] or \[B.Skip\]:

```go
func TestTimeConsuming(t *testing.T) {
    if testing.Short() {
        t.Skip("skipping test in short mode.")
    }
    ...
}
```

The \[T.Skip\] method can be used in a fuzz target if the input is invalid, but should not be considered a failing input. For example:

```go
func FuzzJSONMarshaling(f *testing.F) {
    f.Fuzz(func(t *testing.T, b []byte) {
        var v interface{}
        if err := json.Unmarshal(b, &v); err != nil {
            t.Skip()
        }
        if _, err := json.Marshal(v); err != nil {
            t.Errorf("Marshal: %v", err)
        }
    })
}
```

### Subtests and Sub\\\-benchmarks

The [T.Run](<#T.Run>) and [B.Run](<#B.Run>) methods allow defining subtests and sub\-benchmarks, without having to define separate functions for each. This enables uses like table\-driven benchmarks and creating hierarchical tests. It also provides a way to share common setup and tear\-down code:

```go
func TestFoo(t *testing.T) {
    // <setup code>
    t.Run("A=1", func(t *testing.T) { ... })
    t.Run("A=2", func(t *testing.T) { ... })
    t.Run("B=1", func(t *testing.T) { ... })
    // <tear-down code>
}
```

Each subtest and sub\-benchmark has a unique name: the combination of the name of the top\-level test and the sequence of names passed to Run, separated by slashes, with an optional trailing sequence number for disambiguation.

The argument to the \-run, \-bench, and \-fuzz command\-line flags is an unanchored regular expression that matches the test's name. For tests with multiple slash\-separated elements, such as subtests, the argument is itself slash\-separated, with expressions matching each name element in turn. Because it is unanchored, an empty expression matches any string. For example, using "matching" to mean "whose name contains":

```go
go test -run ''        # Run all tests.
go test -run Foo       # Run top-level tests matching "Foo", such as "TestFooBar".
go test -run Foo/A=    # For top-level tests matching "Foo", run subtests matching "A=".
go test -run /A=1      # For all top-level tests, run subtests matching "A=1".
go test -fuzz FuzzFoo  # Fuzz the target matching "FuzzFoo"
```

The \-run argument can also be used to run a specific value in the seed corpus, for debugging. For example:

```go
go test -run=FuzzFoo/9ddb952d9814
```

The \-fuzz and \-run flags can both be set, in order to fuzz a target but skip the execution of all other tests.

Subtests can also be used to control parallelism. A parent test will only complete once all of its subtests complete. In this example, all tests are run in parallel with each other, and only with each other, regardless of other top\-level tests that may be defined:

```go
func TestGroupedParallel(t *testing.T) {
    for _, tc := range tests {
        t.Run(tc.Name, func(t *testing.T) {
            t.Parallel()
            ...
        })
    }
}
```

Run does not return until parallel subtests have completed, providing a way to clean up after a group of parallel tests:

```go
func TestTeardownParallel(t *testing.T) {
    // This Run will not return until the parallel tests finish.
    t.Run("group", func(t *testing.T) {
        t.Run("Test1", parallelTest1)
        t.Run("Test2", parallelTest2)
        t.Run("Test3", parallelTest3)
    })
    // <tear-down code>
}
```

### Main

It is sometimes necessary for a test or benchmark program to do extra setup or teardown before or after it executes. It is also sometimes necessary to control which code runs on the main thread. To support these and other cases, if a test file contains a function:

```go
func TestMain(m *testing.M)
```

then the generated test will call TestMain\(m\) instead of running the tests or benchmarks directly. TestMain runs in the main goroutine and can do whatever setup and teardown is necessary around a call to m.Run. m.Run will return an exit code that may be passed to [os.Exit](<https://pkg.go.dev/os/#Exit>). If TestMain returns, the test wrapper will pass the result of m.Run to [os.Exit](<https://pkg.go.dev/os/#Exit>) itself.

When TestMain is called, flag.Parse has not been run. If TestMain depends on command\-line flags, including those of the testing package, it should call [flag.Parse](<https://pkg.go.dev/flag/#Parse>) explicitly. Command line flags are always parsed by the time test or benchmark functions run.

A simple implementation of TestMain is:

```go
func TestMain(m *testing.M) {
	// call flag.Parse() here if TestMain uses flags
	m.Run()
}
```

TestMain is a low\-level primitive and should not be necessary for casual testing needs, where ordinary test functions suffice.

## Index

- [func AllocsPerRun\(runs int, f func\(\)\) \(avg float64\)](<#AllocsPerRun>)
- [func CoverMode\(\) string](<#CoverMode>)
- [func Coverage\(\) float64](<#Coverage>)
- [func Init\(\)](<#Init>)
- [func Main\(matchString func\(pat, str string\) \(bool, error\), tests \[\]InternalTest, benchmarks \[\]InternalBenchmark, examples \[\]InternalExample\)](<#Main>)
- [func RegisterCover\(c Cover\)](<#RegisterCover>)
- [func RunBenchmarks\(matchString func\(pat, str string\) \(bool, error\), benchmarks \[\]InternalBenchmark\)](<#RunBenchmarks>)
- [func RunExamples\(matchString func\(pat, str string\) \(bool, error\), examples \[\]InternalExample\) \(ok bool\)](<#RunExamples>)
- [func RunTests\(matchString func\(pat, str string\) \(bool, error\), tests \[\]InternalTest\) \(ok bool\)](<#RunTests>)
- [func Short\(\) bool](<#Short>)
- [func Testing\(\) bool](<#Testing>)
- [func Verbose\(\) bool](<#Verbose>)
- [type B](<#B>)
  - [func \(b \*B\) Elapsed\(\) time.Duration](<#B.Elapsed>)
  - [func \(b \*B\) Loop\(\) bool](<#B.Loop>)
  - [func \(b \*B\) ReportAllocs\(\)](<#B.ReportAllocs>)
  - [func \(b \*B\) ReportMetric\(n float64, unit string\)](<#B.ReportMetric>)
  - [func \(b \*B\) ResetTimer\(\)](<#B.ResetTimer>)
  - [func \(b \*B\) Run\(name string, f func\(b \*B\)\) bool](<#B.Run>)
  - [func \(b \*B\) RunParallel\(body func\(\*PB\)\)](<#B.RunParallel>)
  - [func \(b \*B\) SetBytes\(n int64\)](<#B.SetBytes>)
  - [func \(b \*B\) SetParallelism\(p int\)](<#B.SetParallelism>)
  - [func \(b \*B\) StartTimer\(\)](<#B.StartTimer>)
  - [func \(b \*B\) StopTimer\(\)](<#B.StopTimer>)
- [type BenchmarkResult](<#BenchmarkResult>)
  - [func Benchmark\(f func\(b \*B\)\) BenchmarkResult](<#Benchmark>)
  - [func \(r BenchmarkResult\) AllocedBytesPerOp\(\) int64](<#BenchmarkResult.AllocedBytesPerOp>)
  - [func \(r BenchmarkResult\) AllocsPerOp\(\) int64](<#BenchmarkResult.AllocsPerOp>)
  - [func \(r BenchmarkResult\) MemString\(\) string](<#BenchmarkResult.MemString>)
  - [func \(r BenchmarkResult\) NsPerOp\(\) int64](<#BenchmarkResult.NsPerOp>)
  - [func \(r BenchmarkResult\) String\(\) string](<#BenchmarkResult.String>)
- [type Cover](<#Cover>)
- [type CoverBlock](<#CoverBlock>)
- [type F](<#F>)
  - [func \(f \*F\) Add\(args ...any\)](<#F.Add>)
  - [func \(f \*F\) Fail\(\)](<#F.Fail>)
  - [func \(f \*F\) Fuzz\(ff any\)](<#F.Fuzz>)
  - [func \(f \*F\) Helper\(\)](<#F.Helper>)
  - [func \(f \*F\) Skipped\(\) bool](<#F.Skipped>)
- [type InternalBenchmark](<#InternalBenchmark>)
- [type InternalExample](<#InternalExample>)
- [type InternalFuzzTarget](<#InternalFuzzTarget>)
- [type InternalTest](<#InternalTest>)
- [type M](<#M>)
  - [func MainStart\(deps testDeps, tests \[\]InternalTest, benchmarks \[\]InternalBenchmark, fuzzTargets \[\]InternalFuzzTarget, examples \[\]InternalExample\) \*M](<#MainStart>)
  - [func \(m \*M\) Run\(\) \(code int\)](<#M.Run>)
- [type PB](<#PB>)
  - [func \(pb \*PB\) Next\(\) bool](<#PB.Next>)
- [type T](<#T>)
  - [func \(t \*T\) Chdir\(dir string\)](<#T.Chdir>)
  - [func \(t \*T\) Deadline\(\) \(deadline time.Time, ok bool\)](<#T.Deadline>)
  - [func \(t \*T\) Parallel\(\)](<#T.Parallel>)
  - [func \(t \*T\) Run\(name string, f func\(t \*T\)\) bool](<#T.Run>)
  - [func \(t \*T\) Setenv\(key, value string\)](<#T.Setenv>)
- [type TB](<#TB>)

<a name="AllocsPerRun"></a>

## func [AllocsPerRun](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/allocs.go#L20>)

```go
func AllocsPerRun(runs int, f func()) (avg float64)
```

AllocsPerRun returns the average number of allocations during calls to f. Although the return value has type float64, it will always be an integral value.

To compute the number of allocations, the function will first be run once as a warm\-up. The average number of allocations over the specified number of runs will then be measured and returned.

AllocsPerRun sets [runtime.GOMAXPROCS](<https://pkg.go.dev/runtime/#GOMAXPROCS>) to 1 during its measurement and will restore it before returning.

<a name="CoverMode"></a>

## func [CoverMode](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L718>)

```go
func CoverMode() string
```

CoverMode reports what the test coverage mode is set to. The values are "set", "count", or "atomic". The return value will be empty if test coverage is not enabled.

<a name="Coverage"></a>

## func [Coverage](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/newcover.go#L54>)

```go
func Coverage() float64
```

Coverage reports the current code coverage as a fraction in the range \[0, 1\]. If coverage is not enabled, Coverage returns 0.

When running a large set of sequential test cases, checking Coverage after each one can be useful for identifying which test cases exercise new code paths. It is not a replacement for the reports generated by 'go test \-cover' and 'go tool cover'.

<a name="Init"></a>

## func [Init](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L438>)

```go
func Init()
```

Init registers testing flags. These flags are automatically registered by the "go test" command before running test functions, so Init is only needed when calling functions such as Benchmark without using "go test".

Init is not safe to call concurrently. It has no effect if it was already called.

<a name="Main"></a>

## func [Main](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L2271>)

```go
func Main(matchString func(pat, str string) (bool, error), tests []InternalTest, benchmarks []InternalBenchmark, examples []InternalExample)
```

Main is an internal function, part of the implementation of the "go test" command. It was exported because it is cross\-package and predates "internal" packages. It is no longer used by "go test" but preserved, as much as possible, for other systems that simulate "go test" using Main, but Main sometimes cannot be updated as new functionality is added to the testing package. Systems simulating "go test" should be updated to use [MainStart](<#MainStart>).

<a name="RegisterCover"></a>

## func [RegisterCover](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/cover.go#L36>)

```go
func RegisterCover(c Cover)
```

RegisterCover records the coverage data accumulators for the tests. NOTE: This function is internal to the testing infrastructure and may change. It is not covered \(yet\) by the Go 1 compatibility guidelines.

<a name="RunBenchmarks"></a>

## func [RunBenchmarks](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L687>)

```go
func RunBenchmarks(matchString func(pat, str string) (bool, error), benchmarks []InternalBenchmark)
```

RunBenchmarks is an internal function but exported because it is cross\-package; it is part of the implementation of the "go test" command.

<a name="RunExamples"></a>

## func [RunExamples](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/example.go#L24>)

```go
func RunExamples(matchString func(pat, str string) (bool, error), examples []InternalExample) (ok bool)
```

RunExamples is an internal function but exported because it is cross\-package; it is part of the implementation of the "go test" command.

<a name="RunTests"></a>

## func [RunTests](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L2539>)

```go
func RunTests(matchString func(pat, str string) (bool, error), tests []InternalTest) (ok bool)
```

RunTests is an internal function but exported because it is cross\-package; it is part of the implementation of the "go test" command.

<a name="Short"></a>

## func [Short](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L687>)

```go
func Short() bool
```

Short reports whether the \-test.short flag is set.

<a name="Testing"></a>

## func [Testing](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L711>)

```go
func Testing() bool
```

Testing reports whether the current code is being run in a test. This will report true in programs created by "go test", false in programs created by "go build".

<a name="Verbose"></a>

## func [Verbose](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L723>)

```go
func Verbose() bool
```

Verbose reports whether the \-test.v flag is set.

<a name="B"></a>

## type [B](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L94-L133>)

B is a type passed to [Benchmark](<#Benchmark>) functions to manage benchmark timing and control the number of iterations.

A benchmark ends when its Benchmark function returns or calls any of the methods \[B.FailNow\], \[B.Fatal\], \[B.Fatalf\], \[B.SkipNow\], \[B.Skip\], or \[B.Skipf\]. Those methods must be called only from the goroutine running the Benchmark function. The other reporting methods, such as the variations of \[B.Log\] and \[B.Error\], may be called simultaneously from multiple goroutines.

Like in tests, benchmark logs are accumulated during execution and dumped to standard output when done. Unlike in tests, benchmark logs are always printed, so as not to hide output whose existence may be affecting benchmark results.

```go
type B struct {
    N int
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```

<a name="B.Elapsed"></a>

### func \(\*B\) [Elapsed](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L367>)

```go
func (b *B) Elapsed() time.Duration
```

Elapsed returns the measured elapsed time of the benchmark. The duration reported by Elapsed matches the one measured by [B.StartTimer](<#B.StartTimer>), [B.StopTimer](<#B.StopTimer>), and [B.ResetTimer](<#B.ResetTimer>).

<a name="B.Loop"></a>

### func \(\*B\) [Loop](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L502>)

```go
func (b *B) Loop() bool
```

Loop returns true as long as the benchmark should continue running.

A typical benchmark is structured like:

```go
func Benchmark(b *testing.B) {
	... setup ...
	for b.Loop() {
		... code to measure ...
	}
	... cleanup ...
}
```

Loop resets the benchmark timer the first time it is called in a benchmark, so any setup performed prior to starting the benchmark loop does not count toward the benchmark measurement. Likewise, when it returns false, it stops the timer so cleanup code is not measured.

Within the body of a "for b.Loop\(\) \{ ... \}" loop, arguments to and results from function calls and assigned variables within the loop are kept alive, preventing the compiler from fully optimizing away the loop body. Currently, this is implemented as a compiler transformation that wraps such variables with a runtime.KeepAlive intrinsic call. This applies only to statements syntactically between the curly braces of the loop, and the loop condition must be written exactly as "b.Loop\(\)".

After Loop returns false, b.N contains the total number of iterations that ran, so the benchmark may use b.N to compute other average metrics.

Prior to the introduction of Loop, benchmarks were expected to contain an explicit loop from 0 to b.N. Benchmarks should either use Loop or contain a loop to b.N, but not both. Loop offers more automatic management of the benchmark timer, and runs each benchmark function only once per measurement, whereas b.N\-based benchmarks must run the benchmark function \(and any associated setup and cleanup\) several times.

<details><summary>Example</summary>
<p>

```go
package main

import (
	"math/rand/v2"
	"testing"
)

// ExBenchmark shows how to use b.Loop in a benchmark.
//
// (If this were a real benchmark, not an example, this would be named
// BenchmarkSomething.)
func ExBenchmark(b *testing.B) {
	// Generate a large random slice to use as an input.
	// Since this is done before the first call to b.Loop(),
	// it doesn't count toward the benchmark time.
	input := make([]int, 128<<10)
	for i := range input {
		input[i] = rand.Int()
	}

	// Perform the benchmark.
	for b.Loop() {
		// Normally, the compiler would be allowed to optimize away the call
		// to sum because it has no side effects and the result isn't used.
		// However, inside a b.Loop loop, the compiler ensures function calls
		// aren't optimized away.
		sum(input)
	}

	// Outside the loop, the timer is stopped, so we could perform
	// cleanup if necessary without affecting the result.
}

func sum(data []int) int {
	total := 0
	for _, value := range data {
		total += value
	}
	return total
}

func main() {
	testing.Benchmark(ExBenchmark)
}
```

</p>
</details>

<a name="B.ReportAllocs"></a>

### func \(\*B\) [ReportAllocs](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L192>)

```go
func (b *B) ReportAllocs()
```

ReportAllocs enables malloc statistics for this benchmark. It is equivalent to setting \-test.benchmem, but it only affects the benchmark function that calls ReportAllocs.

<a name="B.ReportMetric"></a>

### func \(\*B\) [ReportMetric](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L384>)

```go
func (b *B) ReportMetric(n float64, unit string)
```

ReportMetric adds "n unit" to the reported benchmark results. If the metric is per\-iteration, the caller should divide by b.N, and by convention units should end in "/op". ReportMetric overrides any previously reported value for the same unit. ReportMetric panics if unit is the empty string or if unit contains any whitespace. If unit is a unit normally reported by the benchmark framework itself \(such as "allocs/op"\), ReportMetric will override that metric. Setting "ns/op" to 0 will suppress that built\-in metric.

<details><summary>Example</summary>
<p>

```go
package main

import (
	"cmp"
	"slices"
	"testing"
)

func main() {
	// This reports a custom benchmark metric relevant to a
	// specific algorithm (in this case, sorting).
	testing.Benchmark(func(b *testing.B) {
		var compares int64
		for b.Loop() {
			s := []int{5, 4, 3, 2, 1}
			slices.SortFunc(s, func(a, b int) int {
				compares++
				return cmp.Compare(a, b)
			})
		}
		// This metric is per-operation, so divide by b.N and
		// report it as a "/op" unit.
		b.ReportMetric(float64(compares)/float64(b.N), "compares/op")
		// This metric is per-time, so divide by b.Elapsed and
		// report it as a "/ns" unit.
		b.ReportMetric(float64(compares)/float64(b.Elapsed().Nanoseconds()), "compares/ns")
	})
}
```

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Example (Parallel)</summary>
<p>

```go
package main

import (
	"cmp"
	"slices"
	"sync/atomic"
	"testing"
)

func main() {
	// This reports a custom benchmark metric relevant to a
	// specific algorithm (in this case, sorting) in parallel.
	testing.Benchmark(func(b *testing.B) {
		var compares atomic.Int64
		b.RunParallel(func(pb *testing.PB) {
			for pb.Next() {
				s := []int{5, 4, 3, 2, 1}
				slices.SortFunc(s, func(a, b int) int {
					// Because RunParallel runs the function many
					// times in parallel, we must increment the
					// counter atomically to avoid racing writes.
					compares.Add(1)
					return cmp.Compare(a, b)
				})
			}
		})

		// NOTE: Report each metric once, after all of the parallel
		// calls have completed.

		// This metric is per-operation, so divide by b.N and
		// report it as a "/op" unit.
		b.ReportMetric(float64(compares.Load())/float64(b.N), "compares/op")
		// This metric is per-time, so divide by b.Elapsed and
		// report it as a "/ns" unit.
		b.ReportMetric(float64(compares.Load())/float64(b.Elapsed().Nanoseconds()), "compares/ns")
	})
}
```

</p>
</details>

<a name="B.ResetTimer"></a>

### func \(\*B\) [ResetTimer](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L166>)

```go
func (b *B) ResetTimer()
```

ResetTimer zeroes the elapsed benchmark time and memory allocation counters and deletes user\-reported metrics. It does not affect whether the timer is running.

<a name="B.Run"></a>

### func \(\*B\) [Run](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L808>)

```go
func (b *B) Run(name string, f func(b *B)) bool
```

Run benchmarks f as a subbenchmark with the given name. It reports whether there were any failures.

A subbenchmark is like any other benchmark. A benchmark that calls Run at least once will not be measured itself and will be called once with N=1.

<a name="B.RunParallel"></a>

### func \(\*B\) [RunParallel](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L950>)

```go
func (b *B) RunParallel(body func(*PB))
```

RunParallel runs a benchmark in parallel. It creates multiple goroutines and distributes b.N iterations among them. The number of goroutines defaults to GOMAXPROCS. To increase parallelism for non\-CPU\-bound benchmarks, call [B.SetParallelism](<#B.SetParallelism>) before RunParallel. RunParallel is usually used with the go test \-cpu flag.

The body function will be run in each goroutine. It should set up any goroutine\-local state and then iterate until pb.Next returns false. It should not use the [B.StartTimer](<#B.StartTimer>), [B.StopTimer](<#B.StopTimer>), or [B.ResetTimer](<#B.ResetTimer>) functions, because they have global effect. It should also not call [B.Run](<#B.Run>).

RunParallel reports ns/op values as wall time for the benchmark as a whole, not the sum of wall time or CPU time over each parallel goroutine.

<details><summary>Example</summary>
<p>

```go
package main

import (
	"bytes"
	"testing"
	"text/template"
)

func main() {
	// Parallel benchmark for text/template.Template.Execute on a single object.
	testing.Benchmark(func(b *testing.B) {
		templ := template.Must(template.New("test").Parse("Hello, {{.}}!"))
		// RunParallel will create GOMAXPROCS goroutines
		// and distribute work among them.
		b.RunParallel(func(pb *testing.PB) {
			// Each goroutine has its own bytes.Buffer.
			var buf bytes.Buffer
			for pb.Next() {
				// The loop body is executed b.N times total across all goroutines.
				buf.Reset()
				templ.Execute(&buf, "World")
			}
		})
	})
}
```

</p>
</details>

<a name="B.SetBytes"></a>

### func \(\*B\) [SetBytes](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L187>)

```go
func (b *B) SetBytes(n int64)
```

SetBytes records the number of bytes processed in a single operation. If this is called, the benchmark will report ns/op and MB/s.

<a name="B.SetParallelism"></a>

### func \(\*B\) [SetParallelism](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L994>)

```go
func (b *B) SetParallelism(p int)
```

SetParallelism sets the number of goroutines used by [B.RunParallel](<#B.RunParallel>) to p\*GOMAXPROCS. There is usually no need to call SetParallelism for CPU\-bound benchmarks. If p is less than 1, this call will have no effect.

<a name="B.StartTimer"></a>

### func \(\*B\) [StartTimer](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L138>)

```go
func (b *B) StartTimer()
```

StartTimer starts timing a test. This function is called automatically before a benchmark starts, but it can also be used to resume timing after a call to [B.StopTimer](<#B.StopTimer>).

<a name="B.StopTimer"></a>

### func \(\*B\) [StopTimer](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L151>)

```go
func (b *B) StopTimer()
```

StopTimer stops timing a test. This can be used to pause the timer while performing steps that you don't want to measure.

<a name="BenchmarkResult"></a>

## type [BenchmarkResult](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L536-L545>)

BenchmarkResult contains the results of a benchmark run.

```go
type BenchmarkResult struct {
    N         int           // The number of iterations.
    T         time.Duration // The total time taken.
    Bytes     int64         // Bytes processed in one iteration.
    MemAllocs uint64        // The total number of memory allocations.
    MemBytes  uint64        // The total number of bytes allocated.

    // Extra records additional metrics reported by ReportMetric.
    Extra map[string]float64
}
```

<a name="Benchmark"></a>

### func [Benchmark](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L1008>)

```go
func Benchmark(f func(b *B)) BenchmarkResult
```

Benchmark benchmarks a single function. It is useful for creating custom benchmarks that do not use the "go test" command.

If f depends on testing flags, then [Init](<#Init>) must be used to register those flags before calling Benchmark and before calling [flag.Parse](<https://pkg.go.dev/flag/#Parse>).

If f calls Run, the result will be an estimate of running all its subbenchmarks that don't call Run in sequence in a single benchmark.

<a name="BenchmarkResult.AllocedBytesPerOp"></a>

### func \(BenchmarkResult\) [AllocedBytesPerOp](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L583>)

```go
func (r BenchmarkResult) AllocedBytesPerOp() int64
```

AllocedBytesPerOp returns the "B/op" metric, which is calculated as r.MemBytes / r.N.

<a name="BenchmarkResult.AllocsPerOp"></a>

### func \(BenchmarkResult\) [AllocsPerOp](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L571>)

```go
func (r BenchmarkResult) AllocsPerOp() int64
```

AllocsPerOp returns the "allocs/op" metric, which is calculated as r.MemAllocs / r.N.

<a name="BenchmarkResult.MemString"></a>

### func \(BenchmarkResult\) [MemString](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L665>)

```go
func (r BenchmarkResult) MemString() string
```

MemString returns r.AllocedBytesPerOp and r.AllocsPerOp in the same format as 'go test'.

<a name="BenchmarkResult.NsPerOp"></a>

### func \(BenchmarkResult\) [NsPerOp](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L548>)

```go
func (r BenchmarkResult) NsPerOp() int64
```

NsPerOp returns the "ns/op" metric.

<a name="BenchmarkResult.String"></a>

### func \(BenchmarkResult\) [String](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L600>)

```go
func (r BenchmarkResult) String() string
```

String returns a summary of the benchmark results. It follows the benchmark result line format from https://golang.org/design/14313-benchmark-format, not including the benchmark name. Extra metrics override built\-in metrics of the same name. String does not include allocs/op or B/op, since those are reported by [BenchmarkResult.MemString](<#BenchmarkResult.MemString>).

<a name="Cover"></a>

## type [Cover](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/cover.go#L26-L31>)

Cover records information about test coverage checking. NOTE: This struct is internal to the testing infrastructure and may change. It is not covered \(yet\) by the Go 1 compatibility guidelines.

```go
type Cover struct {
    Mode            string
    Counters        map[string][]uint32
    Blocks          map[string][]CoverBlock
    CoveredPackages string
}
```

<a name="CoverBlock"></a>

## type [CoverBlock](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/cover.go#L15-L21>)

CoverBlock records the coverage data for a single basic block. The fields are 1\-indexed, as in an editor: The opening line of the file is number 1, for example. Columns are measured in bytes. NOTE: This struct is internal to the testing infrastructure and may change. It is not covered \(yet\) by the Go 1 compatibility guidelines.

```go
type CoverBlock struct {
    Line0 uint32 // Line number for block start.
    Col0  uint16 // Column number for block start.
    Line1 uint32 // Line number for block end.
    Col1  uint16 // Column number for block end.
    Stmts uint16 // Number of statements included in this block.
}
```

<a name="F"></a>

## type [F](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/fuzz.go#L69-L84>)

F is a type passed to fuzz tests.

Fuzz tests run generated inputs against a provided fuzz target, which can find and report potential bugs in the code being tested.

A fuzz test runs the seed corpus by default, which includes entries provided by [F.Add](<#F.Add>) and entries in the testdata/fuzz/\<FuzzTestName\> directory. After any necessary setup and calls to [F.Add](<#F.Add>), the fuzz test must then call [F.Fuzz](<#F.Fuzz>) to provide the fuzz target. See the testing package documentation for an example, and see the [F.Fuzz](<#F.Fuzz>) and [F.Add](<#F.Add>) method documentation for details.

\*F methods can only be called before [F.Fuzz](<#F.Fuzz>). Once the test is executing the fuzz target, only [\\\*T](<#T>) methods can be used. The only \*F methods that are allowed in the [F.Fuzz](<#F.Fuzz>) function are \[F.Failed\] and \[F.Name\].

```go
type F struct {
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```

<a name="F.Add"></a>

### func \(\*F\) [Add](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/fuzz.go#L153>)

```go
func (f *F) Add(args ...any)
```

Add will add the arguments to the seed corpus for the fuzz test. This will be a no\-op if called after or within the fuzz target, and args must match the arguments for the fuzz target.

<a name="F.Fail"></a>

### func \(\*F\) [Fail](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/fuzz.go#L129>)

```go
func (f *F) Fail()
```

Fail marks the function as having failed but continues execution.

<a name="F.Fuzz"></a>

### func \(\*F\) [Fuzz](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/fuzz.go#L211>)

```go
func (f *F) Fuzz(ff any)
```

Fuzz runs the fuzz function, ff, for fuzz testing. If ff fails for a set of arguments, those arguments will be added to the seed corpus.

ff must be a function with no return value whose first argument is [\\\*T](<#T>) and whose remaining arguments are the types to be fuzzed. For example:

```go
f.Fuzz(func(t *testing.T, b []byte, i int) { ... })
```

The following types are allowed: \[\]byte, string, bool, byte, rune, float32, float64, int, int8, int16, int32, int64, uint, uint8, uint16, uint32, uint64. More types may be supported in the future.

ff must not call any [\\\*F](<#F>) methods, e.g. \[F.Log\], \[F.Error\], \[F.Skip\]. Use the corresponding [\\\*T](<#T>) method instead. The only [\\\*F](<#F>) methods that are allowed in the F.Fuzz function are \[F.Failed\] and \[F.Name\].

This function should be fast and deterministic, and its behavior should not depend on shared state. No mutable input arguments, or pointers to them, should be retained between executions of the fuzz function, as the memory backing them may be mutated during a subsequent invocation. ff must not modify the underlying data of the arguments provided by the fuzzing engine.

When fuzzing, F.Fuzz does not return until a problem is found, time runs out \(set with \-fuzztime\), or the test process is interrupted by a signal. F.Fuzz should be called exactly once, unless \[F.Skip\] or [F.Fail](<#F.Fail>) is called beforehand.

<a name="F.Helper"></a>

### func \(\*F\) [Helper](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/fuzz.go#L103>)

```go
func (f *F) Helper()
```

Helper marks the calling function as a test helper function. When printing file and line information, that function will be skipped. Helper may be called simultaneously from multiple goroutines.

<a name="F.Skipped"></a>

### func \(\*F\) [Skipped](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/fuzz.go#L140>)

```go
func (f *F) Skipped() bool
```

Skipped reports whether the test was skipped.

<a name="InternalBenchmark"></a>

## type [InternalBenchmark](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L76-L79>)

InternalBenchmark is an internal type but exported because it is cross\-package; it is part of the implementation of the "go test" command.

```go
type InternalBenchmark struct {
    Name string
    F    func(b *B)
}
```

<a name="InternalExample"></a>

## type [InternalExample](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/example.go#L15-L20>)

```go
type InternalExample struct {
    Name      string
    F         func()
    Output    string
    Unordered bool
}
```

<a name="InternalFuzzTarget"></a>

## type [InternalFuzzTarget](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/fuzz.go#L49-L52>)

InternalFuzzTarget is an internal type but exported because it is cross\-package; it is part of the implementation of the "go test" command.

```go
type InternalFuzzTarget struct {
    Name string
    Fn   func(f *F)
}
```

<a name="InternalTest"></a>

## type [InternalTest](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L1869-L1872>)

InternalTest is an internal type but exported because it is cross\-package; it is part of the implementation of the "go test" command.

```go
type InternalTest struct {
    Name string
    F    func(*T)
}
```

<a name="M"></a>

## type [M](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L2276-L2291>)

M is a type passed to a TestMain function to run the actual tests.

```go
type M struct {
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```

<a name="MainStart"></a>

### func [MainStart](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L2319>)

```go
func MainStart(deps testDeps, tests []InternalTest, benchmarks []InternalBenchmark, fuzzTargets []InternalFuzzTarget, examples []InternalExample) *M
```

MainStart is meant for use by tests generated by 'go test'. It is not meant to be called directly and is not subject to the Go 1 compatibility document. It may change signature from release to release.

<a name="M.Run"></a>

### func \(\*M\) [Run](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L2340>)

```go
func (m *M) Run() (code int)
```

Run runs the tests. It returns an exit code to pass to os.Exit. The exit code is zero when all tests pass, and non\-zero for any kind of failure. For machine readable test results, parse the output of 'go test \-json'.

<a name="PB"></a>

## type [PB](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L914-L919>)

A PB is used by RunParallel for running parallel benchmarks.

```go
type PB struct {
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```

<a name="PB.Next"></a>

### func \(\*PB\) [Next](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/benchmark.go#L922>)

```go
func (pb *PB) Next() bool
```

Next reports whether there are more iterations to execute.

<a name="T"></a>

## type [T](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L934-L938>)

T is a type passed to Test functions to manage test state and support formatted test logs.

A test ends when its Test function returns or calls any of the methods \[T.FailNow\], \[T.Fatal\], \[T.Fatalf\], \[T.SkipNow\], \[T.Skip\], or \[T.Skipf\]. Those methods, as well as the [T.Parallel](<#T.Parallel>) method, must be called only from the goroutine running the Test function.

The other reporting methods, such as the variations of \[T.Log\] and \[T.Error\], may be called simultaneously from multiple goroutines.

```go
type T struct {
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```

<a name="T.Chdir"></a>

### func \(\*T\) [Chdir](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L1862>)

```go
func (t *T) Chdir(dir string)
```

Chdir calls [os.Chdir](<https://pkg.go.dev/os/#Chdir>) and uses Cleanup to restore the current working directory to its original value after the test. On Unix, it also sets PWD environment variable for the duration of the test.

Because Chdir affects the whole process, it cannot be used in parallel tests or tests with parallel ancestors.

<a name="T.Deadline"></a>

### func \(\*T\) [Deadline](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L2163>)

```go
func (t *T) Deadline() (deadline time.Time, ok bool)
```

Deadline reports the time at which the test binary will have exceeded the timeout specified by the \-timeout flag.

The ok result is false if the \-timeout flag indicates “no timeout” \(0\).

<a name="T.Parallel"></a>

### func \(\*T\) [Parallel](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L1758>)

```go
func (t *T) Parallel()
```

Parallel signals that this test is to be run in parallel with \(and only with\) other parallel tests. When a test is run multiple times due to use of \-test.count or \-test.cpu, multiple instances of a single test never run in parallel with each other.

<a name="T.Run"></a>

### func \(\*T\) [Run](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L2050>)

```go
func (t *T) Run(name string, f func(t *T)) bool
```

Run runs f as a subtest of t called name. It runs f in a separate goroutine and blocks until f returns or calls t.Parallel to become a parallel test. Run reports whether f succeeded \(or at least did not fail before calling t.Parallel\).

Run may be called simultaneously from multiple goroutines, but all such calls must return before the outer test function for t returns.

<a name="T.Setenv"></a>

### func \(\*T\) [Setenv](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L1851>)

```go
func (t *T) Setenv(key, value string)
```

Setenv calls os.Setenv\(key, value\) and uses Cleanup to restore the environment variable to its original value after the test.

Because Setenv affects the whole process, it cannot be used in parallel tests or tests with parallel ancestors.

<a name="TB"></a>

## type [TB](<https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.26.1/libexec/src/testing/testing.go#L889-L918>)

TB is the interface common to [T](<#T>), [B](<#B>), and [F](<#F>).

```go
type TB interface {
    ArtifactDir() string
    Attr(key, value string)
    Cleanup(func())
    Error(args ...any)
    Errorf(format string, args ...any)
    Fail()
    FailNow()
    Failed() bool
    Fatal(args ...any)
    Fatalf(format string, args ...any)
    Helper()
    Log(args ...any)
    Logf(format string, args ...any)
    Name() string
    Setenv(key, value string)
    Chdir(dir string)
    Skip(args ...any)
    SkipNow()
    Skipf(format string, args ...any)
    Skipped() bool
    TempDir() string
    Context() context.Context
    Output() io.Writer
    // contains filtered or unexported methods
}
```

Generated by [gomarkdoc](<https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc>)
