# Source: https://developers.cash.app/cash-app-pay-partner-api/guides/resources/frequently-asked-questions/app-experience-and-usage.mdx

***

## stoplight-id: 04aca0b8d12d5

# FAQ: App Experience & Usage

**Q: What is Cash App Pay?**

**A:** Cash App Pay is a fast and simple payment method that allows Cash App customers to pay for purchases either by scanning a simple QR code or by choosing Cash App Pay at checkout.<br />

***

**Q: How do customers pay with Cash App Pay using their desktop during online checkout?**

**A:** Customers can pay with Cash App Pay from their desktop as follows:

1. Select Cash App Pay as their payment method during checkout
2. Scan the QR code generated by using their mobile device’s camera or Cash App’s QR scanner
3. Follow the prompts on their mobile device to complete the transaction<br />

***

**Q: How do customers pay with Cash App Pay using their mobile device?**<br />

**A:** Customers can pay with Cash App Pay using their Android or Apple mobile devices as follows:

1. Select Cash App Pay as their payment method during checkout
2. They will be redirected to Cash App
3. Follow the prompts on their mobile device to complete the transaction<br />

***

**Q: How do customers use Cash App Pay in stores?**

**A:** Cash App Pay allows Cash App users to pay Square sellers who have enabled Cash App Pay on their POS systems. To pay using Cash App Pay at Square POS systems:

1. Select Cash App Pay as their payment method during checkout
2. Scan the QR code generated by using their mobile device’s camera or Cash App’s QR scanner
3. Follow the prompts on their mobile device to complete the transaction<br />

***

**Q: Where can customers use Cash App Pay?**

**A:** Customers can use Cash App Pay in-store with sellers using the Square POS system. They can also use Cash App Pay to do online/e-commerce transactions both via desktop or using their mobile device.

***

**Q: Can customers use Cash App Pay if they’re an international customer?**
**A:** No, they cannot use Cash App Pay if they are an international customer. Cash App Pay is only available in the United States at this time.

***

**Q: Do customers always need a balance in Cash App to use Cash App Pay?**

**A:** Cash App Pay will first attempt to debit the customer’s stored balance. If the balance doesn’t cover the transaction total, 100% will be charged to a linked debit card.
